---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Dec 01
title: December 1, Trust the Process
---

God of my understanding,

Today let me accept the help that is offered to me, and let me reach out to others by sharing my experience, strength and hope. When I get stubborn, remind me to trust. Teach me to use the Steps of the Narcotics Anonymous Program in my life as a guide to solving my problems.

Amen

In our ***IT WORKS HOW AND WHY, BOOK ONE: The Twelve Steps, Step Two,*** it tells us: *“Our surrender in the First Step leaves us with a deep need to believe that we can recover. This surrender makes it possible for us to feel hope. By admitting our own powerlessness, we open our minds to an entirely new idea: the possibility that something greater than ourselves might be powerful enough to relieve our obsession to use drugs. It is quite likely that, before coming to NA, we never believed in any power but our own willpower, and that had failed us. NA introduces us to a new understanding. We draw hope from this understanding and begin to comprehend what it means to believe that a Power greater than ourselves can restore us to sanity. We find additional hope by listening to other recovering addicts. We can relate to where they’ve been and draw hope from who they’ve become. We listen closely at meetings and become willing to apply what we hear to our own lives. As we begin to believe that there is hope for us, we also begin to trust the process of recovery.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 3: A spiritual path, Creative Action of the Spirit***, it also tells us: *“We begin to sort ourselves out with the steps as an ongoing part of our lives. Sharing ourselves, whether we are telling our story or reading our inventory, helps us bring order to the chaos. We experience deeper spiritual growth each time we embrace a step. Over and over we surrender, let go, and trust the process; each time another door opens inside us. The gnawing hunger we felt inside is filled as we practice prayer, meditation, and service. As our defects release the chokehold they once had on us, we are freed to live fully. The narrow choices that once defined us give way and we begin to dream, imagine, create, solve problems, or just seek joy in life itself. Our NA program provides a solid foundation. We can use that foundation to achieve anything, as long as it is centered in spiritual principles. We learn to trust the principles of NA to guide us in all our affairs.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 6: A New Way of Life, Commitment***, it also tells us: *“As principles go, discipline might be one of the less popular. We talk about commitment almost from our first day clean. We make a commitment to show up, to stay clean until our next meeting, to call someone before we pick up. Acting on the commitments we make requires discipline, and that’s a skill we develop as we practice. It doesn’t come naturally to most of us, but our long-term goals are often served by postponing short-term gratification. Discipline is commitment in action, a demonstration of our willingness. It is different from “willpower” or “self-will” in that we are not trying to force ourselves to change. We are changing our relationship to our own behavior. The more we trust the process, the more we are willing to practice discipline. “I got where I am by the grace of God—and a stubborn refusal to go away,” a member shared. When discipline and faith come together, we begin to become the people we wished we could be.”*

*(Admitting, Change, Discipline, Experience, Faith Grace, God of my understanding, Hope, Just For Today, Learning Days, Love, Powerlessness, Practice, Program, Process, Reach Out, Service, Sharing, Steps, Strength, Surrender, Teach, Trust, Willingness)*