---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Dec 02
title: Trust the God of my Understanding
---

Learning to accept the struggles in life and realizing that the God of my understanding will walk with me in every struggle has made my life better. It is a matter of faith and reliance on the God of my understanding Trusting the God of my understanding to be there for me has not always been easy, nor has it always resulted in the outcome I would expect. Frequently I am surprised by the fact that the outcome was not at all what I had hoped for, but I have clear evidence that the God of my understanding gave me the strength and courage to deal with the struggle.

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Nine, Just For Today—Living the Program*** it tells us: *“Surrendering our will puts us in contact with a Higher Power who fills the empty place inside that nothing could ever fill. We learned to trust God for help daily. Living just for today relieves the burden of the past and the fear of the future. We learned to take whatever actions are necessary and to leave the results in the hands of our Higher Power.”*

In our ***IT WORKS HOW AND WHY, BOOK ONE: The Twelve Steps, Step Seven*** it also tells us: *“We need to remember that we are praying to a Power greater than ourselves. We ask humbly, knowing that we are powerless. Some of us will recite a formal prayer that demonstrates humility when we ask our Higher Power to help us. Some of us will pray in a more casual manner, just as humbly, but using our own words. Any communication with our Higher Power is prayer. However we choose to communicate with the God of our understanding, we feel a certain comfort come over us as we pray. We know that we are being cared for.*

*With this knowledge comes freedom. Though not a cure by any means, working the Seventh Step gives us the freedom to choose. We know that if we live by the spiritual principles of recovery, we no longer need to wear ourselves out trying to arrange situations and outcomes. We trust the God of our understanding with our lives. We may still be fearful from time to time, but we no longer have to react to fear in destructive ways. We have the freedom to choose to act constructively or, when appropriate, do nothing at all. Believing that we are being cared for is a result of developing a relationship with a Power greater than ourselves. We are in the process of developing a conscious contact with a Higher Power. We will strive to improve that contact throughout our lives. We are conscious of the God of our understanding and feel that Power’s presence.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 3: A spiritual path, Walking the Walk*** it also tells us: *“Gratitude is not just a mood. It is a course of action, a way of setting ourselves in relation to the world. Sometimes it’s a discipline: It can take work to hold ourselves in that attitude, especially when we are used to seeing the world through our filters of entitlement and resentment. Humility and gratitude walk hand in hand. We practice saying what we are grateful for whether or not we feel it. The feeling may not come naturally at first, but when we practice saying “thanks” we start to recognize how much we have to be thankful for. Many of us start with the fact that we’re not in withdrawal today. When we start to see how fortunate we really are, our questions don’t frighten us as they once did. They may not be answered right away, but we start to see that our questions about the nature of God are much less important than the rewards we get from building the relationship even if we don’t understand it or fully believe it.”*

*(Acceptance, Action, Cared For, Communication, Discipline, Faith, Freedom, God of our understanding, Gratitude, Higher Power, Humility, Just For Today, Learn, Relationship, Prayer, Steps, Surrender, Trust)*