---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Dec 03
title: Truth of Experience
---
God of our understanding,

Teach me to share my life experience with others in Narcotics Anonymous, just as others helped me by sharing their life experiences with me. Help me to have a heart filled with courage and faith, so that I may be rewarded with victory in the spiritual battles I face in my life. Let me be a strong warrior in these battles, filled with the confidence that You are on my side.

Amen

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Two, What Is the Narcotics Anonymous Program?*** it tells us: *“Our message of recovery is based on our experience. Before coming to the Fellowship, we exhausted ourselves by trying to use successfully, and wondering what was wrong with us. After coming to NA, we found ourselves among a very special group of people who have suffered like us and found recovery. In their experiences, freely shared, we found hope for ourselves. If the program worked for them, it would work for us.”*

In our ***IT WORKS HOW AND WHY, BOOK ONE: The Twelve Steps, Step Twelve*** it also tells us: “*The principle of unconditional love is expressed in our attitude. Anyone who reaches out for help is entitled to our compassion, our attention, and our unconditional acceptance. Any addict, regardless of clean time, should be able to pour out his or her pain in an atmosphere free of judgment. Most of us have found that we are able to feel great empathy for those who suffer from our disease precisely because it is our disease. Our empathy isn’t abstract, nor is our understanding. Instead, it is born in shared experience. We greet each other with the recognition reserved for survivors of the same nearly fatal catastrophe. This shared experience, more than anything else, contributes to the atmosphere of unconditional love in our meetings.*

*Helping others is perhaps the highest aspiration of the human heart and something we have been entrusted with as a result of a Higher Power working in our lives. We would do well to remember to ask the God of our understanding to continue working through us in our efforts to carry the message. Diligently practicing the principles of recovery will ensure that the connection between ourselves and our Higher Power remains open and that our service to others is firmly rooted in spirituality.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 1: Living Clean, Growing Pains*** it also tells us: *“One of the benefits of reaching out is finding that our most painful experiences can help someone else. When we say, “I’ve been through that, and I stayed clean,” we realize with gratitude that we have gotten to the other side of something we had feared we could not get through. There is great satisfaction in being able not just to look back, but to reach back and help someone else across.”*

*(Acceptance, Attention, Carry the Message, Compassion, Courage, Empathy, Experience, Faith, God of our understanding, Gratitude, Growth, Hope, Principles, Service, Sharing, Spirituality, Unconditional Love)*
