---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Dec 04
title: Two Masters
---

There is no doubt in my mind or my heart that DRUGGING separated me from the God of my understanding. It really doesn’t matter what my religious background is. When DRUGS becomes my HIGHER POWER, I cannot have a relationship with anyone else; especially the God of my understanding. I cannot serve two masters.

There was this huge void in my life. There was guilt, shame and remorse. When I entered Narcotics Anonymous, I struggled with trusting a God and did not want to believe that He could possibly care about me after all that I had done. Yet over time I opened myself up to the possibility that “God could if I let Him. I began to see evidence that things were changing in my life. I began to see that He was indeed active in my life and that He saved me from myself.

I can’t, you can’t, we can if we let GOD…

In our ***Basic Text, Preface to the First Edition, last part*** it tells us *“We cannot change the nature of the addict or addiction. We can help to change the old lie “Once an addict, always an addict,” by striving to make recovery more available. God, help us to remember this difference.”*

In our ***IT WORKS HOW AND WHY, BOOK ONE: The Twelve Steps, Step Three*** it also tells us: *“What began in the Second Step as belief in a Higher Power can become a fuller relationship with a God of our understanding in Step Three. The decision that we make by working this step, and the relationship that results, will revolutionize our existence...*

*Our relationship with our Higher Power grows stronger as we practice faith. In our experience, talking to a Power greater than ourselves works. When we are having trouble in a particular area of our lives or when we feel unable to stay clean, our Higher Power can help; we only need to ask. With our prayers, we ask a Power greater than ourselves to care for us. Each time we take this action, we strengthen our faith and our decision to rely on our Higher Power.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 3: A Spiritual Path, Conscious Contact*** it also tells us: *“Our commitment to Narcotics Anonymous may be the first “promise we ever keep. I always sought freedom from restraints or authority. The way I convinced myself of my freedom was by becoming a nomad. When you are never anywhere for long, you can pretend that your choices don’t confine you, that you leave no trace on the world. My emotional luggage was always standing by the door. NA has asked me to do what I have never agreed to do before: to stay.” We must come to terms with our own resistance in order to make a commitment to the program. But the unconditional love we learned in the fellowship is one of the most solid things we have experienced. Trusting that gives us the courage to stay through our discomfort.”*

*(Belief, Change the Old Lie, Commitment, Courage, Decision, Experience, Faith, Fellowship, Freedom,* God could if I let Him, *God of our understanding, Relationship, Steps, Trust, Unconditional Love)*
