---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Dec 05
title: Two-Way Street
---

As we walk through the recovery process, each of us will be given opportunities to serve. The Narcotics Anonymous program depends on our willingness to say yes to these opportunities. This willingness on our part is what makes the Narcotics Anonymous effective. This service work is equally important for us, as we find that in saying yes to Narcotics Anonymous, we are also helping ourselves. In volunteering we help to carry Narcotics Anonymous, and Narcotics Anonymous in turn helps to carry us.

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Four, How It Works, Step Twelve*** it tells us: *“We help new people learn the principles of Narcotics Anonymous. We try to make them feel welcome and help them learn what the program has to offer. We share our experience, strength and hope. Whenever possible, we accompany newcomers to a meeting.*

*The selfless service of this work is the very principle of Step Twelve. We received our recovery from the God of our understanding. We now make ourselves available as His tool to share recovery with those who seek it. Most of us learn that we can only carry our message to someone who is asking for help. Sometimes, the only message necessary to make the suffering addict reach out is the power of example. An addict may be suffering but unwilling to ask for help. We can make ourselves available to these people, so when they ask, someone will be there.”*

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Six, The Twelve Traditions of Narcotics Anonymous, Tradition Nine*** it also tells us: *“Communication is a two-way street. Groups share information and guidance with the boards and committees serving them. Then these boards and committees report back to the groups to which they are responsible, describing their operations, discussions, and plans. Responsible service boards and committees consult the groups in matters directly affecting them and seek direction from the groups in matters not already covered by existing policy. By maintaining regular two-way communication between NA groups and the boards and committees serving them, we create an atmosphere of responsibility that serves our fellowship and its primary purpose well.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 7: The Journey Continues, Being of Service*** it also tells us: *“Sometimes just being accountable to something is rewarding. For those of us who don’t have a lot of experience being responsible, this can be a really good lesson. Others have far too much experience being responsible, and service work teaches us to let go. Flexibility, tolerance, and balance are principles we learn to practice as we serve. We learn to practice unity, even when it’s uncomfortable, and we get to exercise our courage. “All my life I felt less than,” a member shared. “A stranger would frown at me and I would have a bad day. Service helped me feel worthy.”*

*(Ask For Help, Balance, Carry Our Message, Communication, Courage, Experience, Flexibility, God of our understanding, Guidance, Hope, Let Go, Maintaining, Opportunities, Principles, Power of Example, Responsibility, Service, Steps, Strength, Tolerance, Willingness, Worthy)*
