---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Dec 06
title: Understanding Addiction
---

We can never fully understand our addiction, its causes or be rid of our secret faults. Yet the steps warn us this is the only way we can find freedom from the bondage of addiction. We are also told that if we are willing to take these steps, we will know great reward. Yes, recovery promises great rewards if we are willing to go to any length to gain what the Narcotics Anonymous program offers. If we work the steps of the Narcotics Anonymous program, addiction loses its power and dominion over us. We learn to live right, and we find the freedom to walk through life without the insanity of the disease.

*In our **Basic** **Text,** **Chapter** **One**, **Who** **Is** **an** **Addict?,** it tells us: “Those of us who have found the Program of Narcotics Anonymous do not have to think twice about the question: Who is an addict? We know! The following is our experience.*

As addicts, we are people whose use of any mind-altering, mood-changing substance causes a problem in any area of life. Addiction is a disease that involves more than the use of drugs. Some of us believe that our disease was present long before the first time we used.

Most of us did not consider ourselves addicted before coming to the Narcotics Anonymous Program. The information available to us came from misinformed people. As long as we could stop using for a while, we thought we were all right. We looked at the stopping, not the using. As our addiction progressed, we thought of stopping less and less. Only in desperation did we ask ourselves, “Could it be the drugs?”

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Preface***, it tells us: *“We knew from the beginning that we were describing a problem not related to any single substance, but a disease that, left untreated, would manifest in one symptom or another until it killed us. A focus on one symptom or substance is too narrow for us. Just as we understand that addiction affects all aspects of our lives, we can see that recovery affects everything we do. Our relationships with our families, our work, our spirituality—even our own bodies—are profoundly shaped by where we come from and the ways in which we address our disease. Just as the rewards of our recovery are often beyond our wildest dreams, we know that the impact of our recovery on our own lives and on those around us is beyond measure. We may never know the good we do just by staying clean and living a principled life to the best of our ability. Our gratitude for our new way of life motivates us to keep giving more, living more, and loving more.*

*We are called to tell our story in NA not just once, but over and over. We cannot see the entirety of ourselves in one Fifth Step or one share, and we can’t see the entirety of our recovery all at once, either. We see it in layers, and our vision of ourselves changes each time we have a shift in perspective or a change in perception. Telling the truth about our lives is one of the most powerful things we can ever do. We start to see the threads that run through our experience, even though we may feel like we have been many different people over the course of our lives. We can see the patterns that help us or hold us back, and we can find hope even at times when our lives are very difficult.”*

*(Any Lengths, Beyond Our Wildest Dreams, Came from Misinformed People, Change, Could it be the drugs?, Experience, Freedom, Gratitude, Hope, Present Long Before, Principled Life, Recovery Affects Everything We Do, Relationships, Sharing, Spirituality, Steps, Truth, Willingness)*
