---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Dec 07
title: Unique Gifts
---

Each of us has been blessed with a special gift to serve. All we need do is discover what it is and then go about providing this service. Some of us do not want to look for these gifts or offer our time to serve for the better good of Narcotics Anonymous. Yet if we are working a good program, the steps will point us in the direction of service work.

I cannot allow laziness, arrogance, or any other character defects to stand in the way of my willingness to serve. Instead, I need to seek out these opportunities and trust that the Spirit will guide me to use my gift whatever it maybe. I may be surprised by what I learn through these experiences.

In our ***Basic Text, Our Members Share, Coming Home, The Spirit of Service*** it tells us: *“When I started service work, I realized how sick I was. Attention seeking, self-centeredness, selfishness, resentment, the desire for revenge, and many of my other character defects got in the way and caused problems for other members. One day at a time, our fellowship continued its growth, and I grew up and got wiser as well. A little at a time I got in touch with humility, God-centeredness, acceptance, forgiveness, and other spiritual principles.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 7: The Journey Continues, Being of Service*** it tells us: *“Service is not a position in a committee; it is a posture in the heart. It’s a way of life we can practice in all our affairs. It can be as simple as holding a door open, or as complicated as “helping a loved one in the last stages of life. Our relationship to service and the way we express it changes as our humility deepens. The desire to serve is a manifestation of freedom from self. Anonymity is a key principle in selfless service. When we learn to give selflessly, in service to those who suffer and to a power greater than ourselves, we find happiness, purpose, and dignity.”*

*(Acceptance, Anonymity, Blessed, Desire, Dignity, Experiences, Forgiveness, Gifts, Give Selflessly, God-centeredness, Growth, Happiness, Humility, One Day at a Time, Opportunities, Posture in the Heart, Purpose, Service, Spiritual Principles, Way of Life, Willingness)*
