---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Dec 08
title: Terminal Uniqueness
---

I can remember when I thought I was really unique. I thought I was different and believed that I was not like “real” addicts. I was different. I could control it. Even when the disease had finally whipped me, I continued to think I was unique. In recovery I slowly learned that I was not unique. I was no different than every other addict. I struggled with the same disease and the same recovery process. As I began to work through the steps, most of my terminal uniqueness disappeared - with one exception. As an addict I have a unique ability to be useful to others who are in the same boat as I am. I can share my experience, strength and hope with others. This makes me uniquely useful.

In our ***Basic Text, Our Members Share, Regardless of ..., I Was Unique*** it tells us: *“The perception of differences on which I had focused was just another way my disease could separate me from you and find me “unqualified” for recovery in NA. I have found that you people are just like me. I am no longer better than or less than. I feel a real love and camaraderie in the Narcotics Anonymous Fellowship. My great spiritual awakening has been that I am an ordinary addict—I am not unique.”*

In our ***IT WORKS HOW AND WHY, BOOK ONE: The Twelve Steps, Step Seven*** it also tells us: *“Asking our Higher Power to remove our shortcomings requires a surrender of a more pronounced nature than our initial surrender. That surrender, born of sheer despair over our powerlessness and inability to manage our lives, moves into an entirely new realm in the Seventh Step. In this new level of surrender, we accept not only our addiction but also the shortcomings related to our addiction. Accepting our addiction was the first move in the direction of accepting ourselves. We know something about ourselves because of our work in the previous steps, and our illusions of uniqueness have been overcome in the process. We know that we are neither more nor less important than anyone else. Understanding that we are not unique is a good indication of humility.”*

In the ***Santa Clarita Area of Narcotics Anonymous, November 3rd 2007, Service Mentorship Workshop manual*** it also tells us *“When I showed up in NA I felt different than everyone else. My sponsor suggested that I become the greeter of my home group, so I did. As the greeter I showed up about 30 minutes before the meeting each week and parked myself at the front door of our meeting place. Everyone who came in got a welcome and most would take an NA hug. This simple action had far reaching effects. It really helped me with my terminal uniqueness. I didn’t feel so different. It also helped others in ways that I had not considered at the time. Years later I had more than one member say “you gave me my first NA hug” - how cool is that. So today when the opportunity is there, I jump at the chance to be a greeter. It still helps me to be a part of and helps others to feel more comfortable and welcomed.” \[Meredith 9/4/2004]*

*(Acceptance, Camaraderie, Comfortable, Experiences, Home Group, Greeter, Hope, Hugs, Humility, Love, NA Hug, Progress, Service, Spiritual Awakening, Steps, Strength, Surrender, Uniquely Useful, Welcomed)*
