---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Dec 09
title: Uniqueness
---

I suffered from terminal uniqueness for a long time, believing that I indeed needed a unique approach to recovery. None of them worked for me until I got into Narcotics Anonymous. Now that I have been attending meetings for a while, I truly understand what they mean when they say, “We all traveled by many roads to arrive in this spot.” Each of us indeed came to Narcotics Anonymous by our own path, yet each of us arrived at the same door. Not everyone chooses to walk through that door. I have seen many people arrive at this same door, two, three or four times, only to walk away. Many of them will get another chance, and some will never make it back. I am grateful to be clean today.

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Four, How It Works, Step Five*** it tells us: *“Usually, as we share this step, the listener will share some of his or her story too. We find that we are not unique. We see, by the acceptance of our confidant, that we can be accepted just the way we are.”*

In our ***IT WORKS HOW AND WHY, BOOK ONE: The Twelve Steps, Step Seven*** it also tells us: *“Asking our Higher Power to remove our shortcomings requires a surrender of a more pronounced nature than our initial surrender. That surrender, born of sheer despair over our powerlessness and inability to manage our lives, moves into an entirely new realm in the Seventh Step. In this new level of surrender, we accept not only our addiction but also the shortcomings related to our addiction. Accepting our addiction was the first move in the direction of accepting ourselves. We know something about ourselves because of our work in the previous steps, and our illusions of uniqueness have been overcome in the process. We know that we are neither more nor less important than anyone else. Understanding that we are not unique is a good indication of humility.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 4: Our Physical Selves, Letting Ourselves Go,*** it also tells us: *“We begin to climb out of the hole we have dug for ourselves when we “recognize that our behavior is not working. We practice appreciating small things about ourselves: the unique way we move, the way our eyes glitter when we talk about things that matter to us, the warmth we feel when we know we are connected to our Higher Power. We celebrate the fact that we are unique and have beauty to offer the world. Our uniqueness is our gift; when we forget that, we let the disease back into our lives.*

*When we fall back into disliking or even hating ourselves, our ability to love suffers. We buy into the old lie that we are not worth it or we’re broken. As we let go of the defects of character and other baggage we have been carrying, we begin to uncover the truth of our humanity, our spirituality, and our beauty. Accepting that can be some of the hardest work we will ever do.”*

*(Acceptance, Appreciating, Beauty, Clean, Confidence, Choose, Gifts, Grateful, Humanity, Humility, Love, Meetings, Share, Spirituality, Steps, Surrender, Truth, Uniqueness)*
