---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Dec 10
title: Unity
---

The God of my understanding is the picture of unity in this life. He works to draw us all closer to Himself. He wants to be in healthy relationships with mankind in general. He also wants us to be in relationship with each other. In Narcotics Anonymous we talk of the need for the unity of the group being central to a group’s success. We talk about the need for groups to be in unity with each other. This unity is of utmost importance to the survival of Narcotics Anonymous, which in turn is vital to our own survival. This unity would not be possible without the guidance of the Spirit. It also would not be possible without our personal effort. Each of us must work to insure this unity. We do this by welcoming each newcomer into the group. We do this through practicing patience and tolerance. We accomplish this unity by willingness to help each other and a willingness to put the group needs before our own needs.

Do I work to support the unity of the group?

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Six, The Twelve Traditions of Narcotics Anonymous, Tradition One*** it tells us: *“Our personal experiences while using differed from one another. As a group, however, we have found many common themes in our addiction. One of these was the need to prove self-sufficiency. We had convinced ourselves that we could make it alone and proceeded to live life on that basis. The results were disastrous and, in the end, each of us had to admit that self-sufficiency was a lie. This admission was the starting point of our recovery and is a primary point of unity for the Fellowship. We had common themes in our addiction, and we find that in our recovery we have much in common. We share a common desire to stay clean. We have learned to depend on a Power greater than ourselves. Our purpose is to carry the message to the addict who still suffers. Our Traditions are the guidelines that protect us from ourselves. They are our unity.*

*Unity is a must in Narcotics Anonymous. This is not to say that we do not have our disagreements and conflicts; we do. Whenever people get together there are differences of opinions. However, we can disagree without being disagreeable. Time and time again, in crises we have set aside our differences and worked for the common good. We have seen two members, who usually do not get along, work together with a newcomer. We have seen a group doing menial tasks to pay rent for their meeting hall. We have seen members drive hundreds of miles to help support a new group. These activities and many others are commonplace in our Fellowship. Without these actions NA could not survive.*

*We must live and work together as a group to ensure that in a storm our ship does not sink and our members do not perish. With faith in a Power greater than ourselves, hard work, and unity we will survive and continue to carry the message to the addict who still suffers.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 5: Relationships, Romantic Relationships, the courage to trust*** it also tells us: *“Being in a relationship is a different experience when we put unity first. When we set aside our own needs and consider the good of the partnership or the family as a whole, it does not mean that we tolerate our needs going unmet or unacknowledged. We start to recognize that each of us will get what we need if both of us come to the relationship with an attitude of willingness and a belief that when we allow our unity to be a priority we can turn the results over to a power greater than ourselves.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 7: The Journey Continues, Love*** it also tells us: *“Unity is a practice of love. We rise above our judgments and come together no matter what. In the process, we learn forgiveness and reconciliation. We don’t always forgive before we start to work together again, but we are obliged to make peace because we cannot easily avoid one another. Forgiveness is an action and a decision. We need a lot of forgiveness, and we also get to provide it. Forgiving is its own reward. We start to find peace within ourselves. When we are free of guilt, shame, and resentment, our minds can be still.”*

*(Forgiveness, Free, God of our understanding, Guidance of the Spirit, Love, Partnership, Patience, Peace, Reconciliation, Relationship, Self-sufficiency, Support, Survival, Tolerance, Unity, Welcoming the Newcomer, Willingness)*
