---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Dec 11
title: Step One is "We"
---

None of us can fight this disease alone. In the Twelve Steps of Narcotics Anonymous, the very first word in Step One is “We.” The God of my understanding says that where two or more of us gather, He will be there with us. He will reveal His plans for us. He will give us guidance. This is the place where the miracles of recovery occur. In union with one another we find strength, wisdom and courage. In fellowship with each other we find answers, truth and joy. It is in union with each other that we can be one. “WE” become one unified group, with one purpose and of one mind with a God of our understanding in Narcotics Anonymous.


In our ***Basic Text, Our Members Share, Life on Life’s Terms, Becoming Whole*** it tells us: *“Narcotics Anonymous has helped me arrest my disease on a daily basis. I have not used, binged, purged, or self-mutilated for the fifteen years I have been in NA. I have not, since that early suicide attempt, heard any voices. I have had lots of outside help to deal with my mental health issues, but I address the residual symptoms of my disease through recovery. The times when I have felt suicidal, I haven’t acted on those urges. At those times I tell myself maybe in the future, but not today, and then the feelings and desire pass. Suicide is a permanent solution for a temporary problem. The Fifth Tradition leaves me never purposeless and never alone; as a group member I can always carry the message of recovery to the addict who still suffers.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 5: Relationships, Fellowship*** it also tells us: *“When NA began, the simple idea that addicts could recover in society, rather than having to be removed from it for long periods of time, was radical. For many of us today, what is revolutionary about our recovery is the love and intimacy we experience with other members. We come together in fellowship. As we stay together, we find in one another a deep affection and trust that can override the hurts and squabbles we have along the way. The ties that bind us together are also the roots that nourish our growth.”*

*(Carry the Message, Courage, Experience, Fellowship, God of our understanding, Growth, Guidance, Just For Today, Love and Intimacy, Miracles of Recovery, Strength, Traditions, Willingness, Wisdom)*
