---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Dec 12
title: Unlimited Power
---

Man has often dreamed of an unlimited supply of power; but with all our resources available to us, they all have limits in some way. But for the addict, we find a source of unlimited power in the Narcotics Anonymous Program.

As I turn my life over to the God of my understanding. I tapped into this never-ending supply of power; all I needed to do is ask the God of my understanding for His help. His strength was immediately available to me.

Too many of us are blocked off from this Power. We are blocked by returning to an attitude of self-reliance. Yet, in our foolishness, we discover that the Power we seek is always there for us. We may at times turn our back on the God of our understanding, but He never turns His back on us.

Where am I today in my walk with the God of my understanding?

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Four, How It Works, Step Eleven*** it tells us: *“The first ten steps have set the stage for us to improve our conscious contact with the God of our understanding. They give us the foundation to achieve our long-sought, positive goals. Having entered this phase of our spiritual program through practicing the previous ten steps, most of us welcome the exercise of prayer and meditation. Our spiritual condition is the basis for a successful recovery that offers unlimited growth.*

*Many of us really begin to appreciate our recovery when we get to the Eleventh Step. In the Eleventh Step, our lives take on a deeper meaning. By surrendering control, we gain a far greater power.*

*The nature of our belief will determine the manner of our prayers and meditations. We need only make sure that we have a system of belief that works for us. Results count in recovery. As has been noted elsewhere, our prayers seemed to work as soon as we entered the Program of Narcotics Anonymous and we surrendered to our disease. The conscious contact described in this step is the direct result of living the steps. We use this step to improve and maintain our spiritual condition.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 5: Relationships*** it also tells us: *“Our recovery is based in relationships, and most of us struggle with them in one way or another. Our relationships with one another in the rooms, with the families we come from and the families we create, are all places where we learn to practice principles, including honesty, empathy, and intimacy. Love is a healing presence in our lives, and we experience its power when we allow ourselves to reach out.”*

*(Empathy, Experience, Foundation, God of my understanding, Honesty, Intimacy, Love, Prayers and Meditations, Principles, Relationships, Steps, Strength, Surrender)*
