---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Dec 13
title: Road to Peace
---

Something told me that this was the road I needed to take to find my way out. Looking back, I now understand that the God of my understanding was taking care of me in the process. Even though there were many parts of my life that I did not enjoy seeing, I was never given more than I could handle. Most of these unpleasant emotions would have given me every reason to use in the past, but the thought of using never entered my mind. What did enter my mind was a desire to stop the insanity, rebuild my life and to know that I have the right to happiness and peace of mind.

In our ***IT WORKS HOW AND WHY, BOOK ONE: The Twelve Steps, Step Eleven*** it tells us: *“Practicing the Eleventh Step involves a daily discipline of prayer and meditation. This discipline reinforces our commitment to recovery, to living a new way of life, and to developing further our relationship with our Higher Power. Through this daily “practice, we begin to glimpse the limitless freedom we can be afforded through God’s love. We have found that following such a discipline also results in a firm belief in our own right to happiness and peace of mind.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 6: A New Way of Life, Stability*** it also tells us: *“Like so many things we strive for in recovery, stability is an inside job. The feeling of stability starts from the knowledge that we are okay no matter what happens. It’s a sense of security and safety in our own lives. We may believe that this will be a result of achieving goals—like getting a house, a partner, a job, or some imagined amount of money. But when fear grips us, it doesn’t matter what we have or who we share it with. The security that we seek comes from peace within ourselves, a relationship with a Higher Power, and connection with others. Coming to believe that our life is really ours can take a long time.”*

*(Coming to Believe, Commitment to Recovery, Desire, Discipline, God of my understanding, Happiness and Peace of Mind, Limitless Freedom, Love, Peace, Practicing, Prayer and Meditation, Pride, Rebuild, Relationship, Security, Stability, Steps)*
