---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Dec 14
title: Unmanageability
---

Initially I was filled with doubt and confusion. Over time this was slowly replaced with a belief that the God of my understanding could and would do for me what I could not do on my own. This did not mean that I stopped trying, but it did mean I had to stop planning outcomes. I had to learn to trust the God of my understanding and leave the results up to Him. I still find myself from time to time in the driver’s seat which is okay, but I leave the map reading up to the God of my understanding.

Do I let the God of my understanding lead the way?

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Two, What Is the Narcotics Anonymous Program?*** it tells us: *“We let new ideas flow into us. We ask questions. We share what we have learned about living without drugs. Though the principles of the Twelve Steps may seem strange to us at first, the most important thing about them is that they work. Our program is a way of life. We learn the value of spiritual principles such as surrender, humility and service from reading the NA literature, going to meetings and working the steps. We find that our lives steadily improve, if we maintain abstinence from mind-altering, mood-changing chemicals and work the Twelve Steps to sustain our recovery. Living this program gives us a relationship with a Power greater than ourselves, corrects defects and leads us to help others. Where there has been wrong, the program teaches us the spirit of forgiveness.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 2: The Ties That Bind, Connection to Ourselves*** it also tells us: *“Sometimes it can take a while for our sense of ourselves to catch up to who we are. We may even sabotage ourselves to return to familiar chaos or pain when our lives start seeming too different from what they had been. Gradually, we learn that much of the unmanageability we struggle with is the result of the choices we make. When we begin to get comfortable with new choices, our lives change—sometimes radically.”*

*(A Way of Life, Belief, Chance, Choices, Faith, Forgiveness, God of our understanding, Going to Meetings and Working the Steps, Help Others, Humility, Living the Program, Maintain Abstinence, Relationship, Service, Share, Spiritual Principles, Surrender, They Work, Trust)*
