---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Dec 15
title: Using the Gift
---

Think deeply about the gift of recovery that has been given to you. When I really stop and think about what could have been and where I am at in my life today, I sit in awe. A miracle has happened. Not only do I have life, but also I have found happiness and inner peace. Then when I think about what it means to have this gift and to hold it in trust, it becomes easy to do the things I need to do in recovery. When I realize what has happened to me in recovery, I become convinced that anything is possible. I only need to practice these principles in all that I do.

In our ***IT WORKS HOW AND WHY, BOOK ONE: The Twelve Steps, Step Twelve*** it tells us: *“To practice the principles of recovery in all our affairs is what we strive for. Both in and out of meetings, no matter who is involved, no matter how difficult it may seem, we make the principles of recovery the guides by which we live. Only through the practice of these principles in our daily life can we hope to achieve the spiritual growth necessary to maintain our reprieve from the disease of addiction. Though this may seem a lofty goal, we have found it attainable. Our gratitude for the gift of recovery becomes the underlying force in all we do, motivating us and weaving its way through our lives and the lives of those around us.*

*Even in silence, the voice of our gratitude does not go unheard. It speaks most clearly as we walk the path of recovery, selflessly giving to those we meet along the way. We venture forth on our spiritual journey, our lives enriched, our spirits awakened, and our horizons ever-expanding. The quintessential spirit that lies inside each one of us, the spark of life that was almost extinguished by our disease, has been renewed through working the Twelve Steps of Narcotics Anonymous. It is on the path paved with these steps that our future journey begins.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 1: Living Clean, Why We Stay*** it also tells us: *“Yes, we are a vision of hope, as the Basic Text says. This book is about seeing that hope as something that always grows, drawing us forward throughout our recovery and throughout our lives. We don’t just recover; we thrive. The NA program gives us tools for living. The work is never-ending, and the rewards of living the program are ongoing as well. We work to improve our circumstances, creating and re-creating a life that matches our vision for ourselves. Often the change we seek is in our ideas and attitudes. We learn to see the world more clearly. We are so grateful for the recovery we can see in ourselves and the people around us. Great rewards are always waiting for us, if we are willing to make the effort.*

*Narcotics Anonymous is a bridge to life, and a path we can walk throughout our lives. The gift is freedom. Each level of freedom we experience opens us to greater freedom beyond, just as each level of awareness allows us to recognize how much we do not yet see.*

*Although we may live very differently from one another, we share the same journey. We are so grateful to have found recovery, to be living clean, and to know, wherever we are in our travels—the journey continues.”*

*(Freedom, Gift of Recovery, Gratitude, Happiness, Journey Continues, Make the Effort, Miracles, Peace, Practice, Principals, Renewed, Selflessly, Spirits Awakened, Spiritual Growth, Steps, Tools for Living, Vision of Hope, Willingness)*
