---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Dec 16
title: Values and Virtues
---

Values and virtues are things I do not often speak of, but they are of utmost importance to the recovering addict. Values are the things I hold dear. They define what is important and where I invest my time and energy. If I value my recovery I will invest time and energy into it. The same is true with family, a spiritual life, work, self-care and my relationships with others. Virtues on the other hand determine how I go about living my life. The Narcotics Anonymous program teaches me many virtues such as honesty, courage, wisdom and many others. I discovered that I do not need to live in a manner of self-deceit, dishonesty, fear and stupidity. I find that I can develop healthy values and virtues. Recovery and our Steps and Traditions of Narcotics Anonymous teach me how to live.

Am I developing a healthy set of values and virtues?

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Eight, We Do Recover*** it tells us: *“Because of this, of course, many relapsed and many were lost completely. However, many stayed and some came back after their setback. The brighter part is the fact that of those who are now our members, many have long terms of complete abstinence and are better able to help the newcomer. Their attitude, based on the spiritual values of our steps and traditions, is the dynamic force that is bringing increase and unity to our program. Now we know that the time has come when that tired old lie, “Once an addict, always an addict,” will no longer be tolerated by either society or the addict himself. We do recover.”*

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Nine, Just For Today—Living the Program*** it tells us: *“What we knew about living before we came to NA almost killed us. Managing our own lives got us to the Narcotics Anonymous Program. We came to NA knowing very little about how to be happy and enjoy life. A new idea cannot be grafted onto a closed mind. Being open-minded allows us to hear something that might save our lives. It allows us to listen to opposing points of view, and come to conclusions of our own. Open-mindedness leads us to the very insights that have eluded us during our lives. It is this principle that allows us to participate in a discussion without jumping to conclusions or predetermining right and wrong. We no longer need to make fools of ourselves by standing up for nonexistent virtues. We have learned that it is okay to not know all the answers, for then we are teachable and can learn to live our new life successfully.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 1: Living Clean, Keys to Freedom*** it also tells us: *“Our self-made prisons no longer serve us. We are free to explore and discover what we are good at. We are free to participate, create, care and share, surprise ourselves, take risks, be vulnerable, and stand on our own two feet. We find our beliefs and begin to act on them. We make decisions based on our values. We walk through fear and wake up to the miracles that surround us. We are free to be who we are and live as we choose.”*

*(Courage, Decisions, Free to Be Who We Are, Freedom, Honesty, learn, Live as We Choose, Miracles, Open-mindedness, Spiritual Life, Steps, Teachable, Traditions, Unity, Values, Virtues, We Do Recover, Wisdom)*
