---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Dec 17
title: We Only Have Just For Today
---
 
Just For Today, worry does me no good. The God of my understanding has promised that He will only give me what I can handle Just For Today. He has promised me that He will give me the strength that I need. He will give me courage to fight fears. He will provide inner peace to keep me centered Just For Today. With His help I can face anything that happens Just For Today. With His help I can make good choices. Just For Today I can live life on life’s terms. Just For Today I look to make progress in my recovery and in my life.

Am I making good choices Just For Today?

Our ***reading, We Do Recover*** tells us: *"When at the end of the road we find that we can no longer function as a human being, either with or without drugs, we all face the same dilemma. What is there left to do? There seems to be this alternative: either go on as best we can to the bitter ends—jails, institutions or death—or find a new way to live. In years gone by, very few addicts ever had this last choice. Those who are addicted today are more fortunate. For the first time in man’s entire history, a simple way has been proving itself in the lives of many addicts. It is available to us all. This is a simple spiritual—not religious—program, known as Narcotics Anonymous."*

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter* Eight, We Do Recover** it also tells us: *“In our recovery, we find it essential to accept reality. Once we can do this, we do not find it necessary to use drugs in an attempt to change our perceptions. Without drugs, we have a chance to begin functioning as useful human beings, if we accept ourselves and the world exactly as it is. We learn that conflicts are a part of reality, resolve them instead of running from them. They are a part of the real world. We learn not to become emotionally involved with problems. We deal with what is at hand and try not to force solutions. We have learned that if a solution isn’t practical, it isn’t spiritual. In the past, we made simple situations into problems; we made mountains out of molehills. Our best ideas got us here. In recovery, we learn to depend on a Power greater than ourselves. We don’t have all the answers or solutions, but we can learn to live without drugs. We can stay clean and enjoy life, if we remember to live “Just for Today.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 6: A New Way of Life, Education*** it also tells us: *“Often we act as if our lives will really begin at some future time: When we get a certain amount of cleantime, when. A we finish school, when we get that job, or when our lives have magically become manageable. In a “just for today” program, we learn that what matters is not what will happen at a future date. Our lives are what we’re doing right now. The way we live on the way to our goals is the way we live. Tall trees require deep roots. We need to ensure that we are taking the time to build and maintain our foundation as we move forward.”*

*(Acceptance, Build and Maintain Our Foundation, Choice, Foundation, Give Me What I Can Handle, God of my understanding, Inner Peace, Isn’t Practical ~ It Isn’t Spiritual, Just For Today, Live Life On Life’s Terms, New Way to Live, Our Lives Are What We’re Doing Right Now, Progress, Spiritual, Useful Human Beings)*
