---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Dec 18
title: Weaver of my Life
---

The God of my understanding,

You are the great weaver of my life. You show me where the thread of my life fits into this tapestry. Just For Today let me open my life to Your hands and follow where I am led. Let me acknowledge the work that has already been accomplished by You in the lives of so many others in Narcotics Anonymous. For Your skillful hands I am grateful.

Amen

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter One, Who Is an Addict?*** it tells us: *"The only alternatives to recovery are jails, institutions, dereliction and death. Unfortunately, our disease makes us deny our addiction. If you are an addict, you can find a new way of life through the NA Program. We have become very grateful in the course of our recovery. Through abstinence and through working the Twelve Steps of Narcotics Anonymous, our lives have become useful.*

*We realize that we are never cured, and that we carry the disease within us for the rest of our lives. We have a disease, but we do recover. Each day we are given another chance. We are convinced that there is only one way for us to live, and that is the NA way."*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 4: Our Physical Selves, Wellness and Health*** it also tells us: *“Being a good steward of our bodies means accepting that they need care and maintenance. As we recover, many of us find that we have a new importance in the lives of our families. We develop deep friendships; we become useful in our work and our communities. Where once we may have been a burden to others, we now find that we are important to many people. We matter! Not taking care of ourselves, living self-destructively in recovery, we find the old lie “I’m only hurting myself” still falls flat. For the people who care about us, failing to care for ourselves is frustrating at best. Too often, it leads to the result that once again they are taking care of us. Taking care of ourselves is an act of amends not only to ourselves, but to the people who love us, and to our Higher Power. It’s a way of showing gratitude for being alive.”*

*(Amends, Care and Maintenance, Friendships, Given Another Chance, Gratitude, God of my understanding, Just For Today, Our Lives Have Become Useful, Steps, The NA Way, We Do Recover, We Matter)*
