---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Dec 19
title: What Am I Doing Here?
---
I can remember thinking, “What am I doing here?” I really didn’t see how going to meetings was going to help. I would go and sit around, not say much and hope the “magic” would work. When it became apparent that just sitting around wasn’t going to work, I realized I had to put it into action. That meant going to meetings regularly, sharing my story, talking about the problems I faced along the way and helping others. As I began to become more involved and put as much energy into my recovery as I did my using, I soon began to leave meetings feeling better.

Am I giving of myself, my time, energy and effort at meetings?

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Two, What Is the Narcotics Anonymous Program?*** it tells us: *“Surviving against all odds, we are addicts who meet regularly. We respond to honest sharing and listen to the stories of our members for the message of recovery. We realize that there is hope for us at last.*

*We make use of the tools that have worked for other recovering addicts who have learned in NA to live without drugs. The Twelve Steps are positive tools that make our recovery possible. Our primary purpose is to stay clean and to carry the message to the addict who still suffers. We are united by our common problem of addiction. By meeting, talking, and helping other addicts, we are able to stay clean. The newcomer is the most important person at any meeting, because we can only keep what we have by giving it away.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 3: A Spiritual Path, Awakening to Our Spirituality*** it also tells us: *“We are not the only people who have spiritual awakenings, but there is a particular awakening we experience as a result of working the steps: We awaken to our own spirituality. We are newly alive to the world around us. We see more clearly and feel more acutely—and that isn’t always comfortable. Some of our members believe that the most important spiritual awakening occurs when we walk in the door of Narcotics Anonymous, and we spend the rest of our recovery trying to understand what happened. For others of us, awakening, like so much else in recovery, seems to happen in layers: “The fog pulled back to where I could see how much fog there was,” said one. “Each time it pulls back, I see more on the horizon; I have a sense of how big it is and how much I still can’t see. With a little luck, I’ll be waking up more and more my whole life.”*

*Some of us have awakened spiritually with an overwhelming sense of a power greater than ourselves. Others have shared a slow, gentle reviving of spiritual awareness, whether or not we ever experience a sense of a Higher Power. The discovery that others care about us can be a spiritual awakening. For the first time we recognize that we matter. Living according to principles leads us to humility—a greater awareness of our place in the world and our ability to live comfortably in it. We often hear at meetings, “The most important thing to understand about a Higher Power is that you ain’t it!” Whatever it takes for us to realize that we are not the center of the universe, it’s worth it. We may be too clever to declare ourselves a supreme being, but our self-centered disease still tells us that we are responsible for much more than we could possibly control. When we practice living in harmony with our world, we become wiser about choosing our battles. We learn where we can use our energy to make a difference and where we need to let go. Learning to step away from a conflict once it has started is sometimes harder than not getting into conflicts at all. That doesn’t mean that we always agree with anyone or everything, or that we suddenly lose the power to stand up for what’s right. On the contrary, we learn when to step forward and when to back away. Some struggles are worth fighting even if we know we cannot win, just as some are not worth fighting even though our victory is sure. This is discernment, and it comes from our experience. We learn to tell the difference between a principle we need to stand for and an opinion that we just won’t let go of. We are able to choose for ourselves when to stand up and when to surrender, and as we practice we get better at determining which is right for us.”*

*(Actions, Awakening to Our Spirituality, Energy Into My Recovery, Get Involved, God of my understanding, Helping Other Addicts, Honesty, Hope, Humility, Learn, Living in Harmony, Meetings, Positive Tools, Principles, Sharing My Story, Steps, Surrender)*