---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Dec 20
title: What Is Grace?
---

“But for the grace of God” - This statement is repeated at meetings; but just what does this grace mean? I think for each of us it has different meanings, but what this grace is combines all these meanings and more. This grace means that I can walk in His security and do not need to depend on anything other than His grace. This grace means protection against all that is evil for me if I simply choose to accept this gift. The world cannot hurt me if I am wrapped in His grace. Sure, I will have struggles that I will face and even great pains at times, but I cannot be harmed by this if I walk in His grace. It is this grace that enables me to find new life. It is this grace that provides for my needs. These words are not empty for the addict. His grace is all.

Do I meditate on His grace in my life?

In our ***Basic Text***, ***Chapter Four, How It Works, Step Eleven*** it tells us: *“We begin to pray only for God’s will for us. This way we are getting only what we are capable of handling. We are able to respond to it and handle it, because God helps us prepare for it. Some of us simply use our words to give thanks for God’s grace.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 7: The Journey Continues, Awakenings*** it also tells us: *“When dancers move through space with intention and beauty, we say they are graceful. In the same way, when we move through our lives with intention and gratitude, we demonstrate grace; when we crash from one self-willed experience to another, creating damage and confusion, we are disgraceful. If we are willing to return to humility and gratitude, our lives get easier. Even when we can’t identify the next right thing, we can generally see the next wrong thing and stay away from it. When our spirituality leads us, we can move through our lives with ease.”*

*(Choose, Ease, Gift, God’s Will, Grace, Gratitude, Humility, New Life, Spirituality, Steps)*
