---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Dec 21
title: What Is My Path?
---

We all traveled different paths to arrive at the door of opportunity that Narcotics Anonymous offers. The same is true regarding our concept of “God as we understand Him.” Many of us claimed to believe and have faith when we were active in our addiction, but our behavior did not match our words. We may have asked for His help, but we did not accept it when His hand reached out to offer help. As we enter Narcotics Anonymous, we all start in different places with regard to our spiritual faith. Some of us can crawl, others walk and still others may be able to spiritually run right from the start.

In our ***IT WORKS HOW AND WHY, BOOK ONE: The Twelve Steps, Step Eleven*** it tells us: *“We are on a spiritual path which will lead us to a greater understanding of our Higher Power. Many of us have remarked on the great joy we find along the way. We are sure to get help from our fellow members or, perhaps, even from others who are also walking a spiritual path. Seeking out these individuals and asking for their guidance can help us find our own answers; however, sharing in another’s experience does not excuse us from the need to seek our own. Others may be able to show us the path they walked, sharing with us the joy and insight they found along the way; nevertheless, we may find our spiritual paths taking a different turn and have to adjust our method of travel accordingly. In the end, we find what’s true for us in moments of personal contact with our Higher Power. The experience shared by others is just that: experience, not ultimate answers to the mysteries of life.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 3: A Spiritual Path, Creative Action of the Spirit*** it also tells us: “*It is important to have conviction about what we do. We no longer change who we are to match who happens to be around. Because of this new sense of conviction, we have a clearer path to follow. “Before NA, I was a coward and a follower. My spiritual awakening compels me to stand firm in my beliefs,” offered a member. Resentment, fear, and arrogance cut us off from the ability to be spontaneous, creative, and free. We open that channel when we begin to take selfless, loving action. We learn to respect and love people without seeking approval.*

*We become responsible members of our communities, taking what we learn in the meetings and practicing that in our lives. Service matters in the world. At different times our paths lead us to be of service to others, directly or indirectly. One of the most wonderful feelings we know is that of being a part of humanity. When we practice spiritual principles we experience awareness and empathy with others. Spirituality teaches us to feel human. After so many years of isolation, a feeling of well-being rises within us, assuring us that we are right where we’re supposed to be.”*

The ***Narcotics Anonymous Step Working Guide page 89*** also tells us: *"The steps aren't designed to make us happy and comfortable without also making us grow... We hear often around Narcotics Anonymous that "it gets better". It is us-we get better. We become better people. We become less willing to engage in destructive behavior because we are aware of the cost in human misery, both our own and that of those around us"*

*(Awareness, Believe, Conviction, Empathy, Experience, Faith, God as we understand Him, Grow, Insight, Joy, Responsible, Sharing, Spiritual Awakening, Spiritual Path, Spiritual Principles, Steps, The Doors of Opportunity)*