---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Dec 22
title: Wisdom and Progress
---

God of my understanding,

Please get into my head before I do. Help me Just For Today to focus my energy on gaining the wisdom that Narcotics Anonymous has to offer. Let me bring all my thoughts to You and evaluate them in the light of Your will for me. Let me spend my time seeking to improve my contact with You and gain true wisdom for my recovery.

Amen

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Four, How It Works, Step Eleven*** it tells us: *"We become willing to let other people be who they are without having to pass judgment on them. The urgency to take care of things isn’t there anymore. We couldn’t comprehend acceptance in the beginning; today we can.*

*We know that whatever the day brings, God has given us everything we need for our spiritual well-being. It is all right for us to admit powerlessness, because God is powerful enough to help us stay clean and to enjoy spiritual progress. God is helping us to get our house in order."*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 1: Living Clean, Growing Pains*** it also tells us: *“Our ability to feel joy and gratitude can be a direct result of the suffering we have endured. Staying clean is not a guarantee that nothing bad will happen, but the principles in the steps teach us how to live on life’s terms and give us the courage, strength, and wisdom to stay clean no matter what. We are able to live lives of joy and purpose no matter what we have been through. Faith is what “keeps us doing the footwork even when we can’t see the reason.”*


In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 6: A New Way of Life, Commitment*** it also tells us: *“Goals are dreams we put into action. We can understand the work and measure our progress more easily if we break our goals down into steps. After all, we know a thing or two about doing things in steps! Setting achievable goals and celebrating milestones along the way allows us to see our progress, and gives us moments when we can step back and evaluate where we are and where we are going.”*

*(Acceptance, Achievable Goals, Comprehend, Courage, Faith, Gratitude, Goals Are Dreams We Put Into Action, Principles, Progress, Stay Clean, Steps, Strength, Willingness, Wisdom)*