---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Dec 23
title: Wisdom Builds
---

When I was active in my addiction, my thinking was all messed up. I was capable of rationalizing and defending all my behaviors and decisions. When I entered the Narcotics Anonymous program, I had to learn a new way of thinking. This was not something I did on my own. I needed help from others and learn the “Wisdom to know the difference.”

Wisdom was not something I had a lot of early on in recovery. I needed to rely on others in Narcotics Anonymous to give me feedback and suggestions. I had to learn that to do that which was healthy for me was the wise thing to do. I thank the God of my understanding for Narcotics Anonymous and the people who have helped me along the way.

In our ***Basic Text, Our Members Share, Introduction to Our Members Share*** it tells us: *“In our meetings, our lives, and our literature, we help each other by sharing our experience and the tools we use to live clean and recover. The Basic Text is an expression of this desire to carry our message. The first ten chapters contain our collective wisdom describing the program, and now we turn to our individual experiences living the program. Our members’ lives depend on our program; our program comes to life through the voices of our members.”*

In our ***IT WORKS HOW AND WHY, BOOK ONE: The Twelve Steps, Step Seven*** it also tells us: *“Through working the previous steps, we see that attaining humility is necessary if we are going to live a clean life and walk a spiritual path. An attitude of humility is not the same as humiliation, nor is it a denial of our good qualities. On the contrary, an attitude of humility means that we have a realistic view of ourselves and our place in the worldly. In the Seventh Step, humility means understanding our role in our own recovery, appreciating our strengths and limitations, and having faith in a Power greater than ourselves. To work the Seventh Step, we must get out of the way so that God can do God’s work. Humbly asking for the removal of our shortcomings means we are giving complete license to that loving Power to work in our lives, believing that God’s wisdom far exceeds our own.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 1: Living Clean, Key to Freedom*** it also tells us: *“Wisdom is building on past experience to cope with new events. When we think about our lives now in contrast to our active addiction, it is important to remember that “it is not where we have been that counts, but where we are going.” But where we have been in recovery is the foundation of our wisdom. We learn from our experience, and we use it to help others. Our wisdom grows as we learn to see ourselves honestly, without judging or jumping to conclusions.”*

*(Appreciating Our Strengths and Limitations, Clean Life, Experiences, Foundation, God of our understanding, Honestly, Humility, Literature, Living the Program, Loving Power, Realistic View of Ourselves, Sharing, Steps, Tools, We Help Each Other, Where We Are Going, Wisdom)*
