---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Dec 24
title: Wisdom Learned
---

As I have walked through life in Narcotics Anonymous, I have learned many things. Perhaps one of the more important things that I have learned is that there are two kinds of Wisdom.

There is spiritual wisdom. This is the wisdom I gain when I seek to improve my conscious contact with the God of my understanding and His will for me. Learning to recognize that He is active in my life and that He gives me direction is also a part of this wisdom.

Secondly, there is practical wisdom. This is the wisdom regarding the choices I make regarding my behavior. Practical wisdom tells me not to use that which is poison to my life. Practical wisdom tells me what is healthy. Practical wisdom pushes me to care for myself.

In our ***Basic Text, Our Members Share, Coming Home, The Only Requirement*** it tells us: *“One of the biggest challenges I faced as a new member in recovery was the fact that I came into the fellowship on methadone maintenance. I had a lot of reservations about getting clean and was particularly scared about getting off methadone. Being in a drug-replacement program had helped me get some structure into my life after years of living on the street. I now had a roof over my head and was working again. I was afraid that if I gave up methadone I would return to the insanity of homelessness and life as a criminal. As always, the wisdom and experience of other NA members helped guide me through this dilemma. Nobody told me what to do. Instead, by quiet example, they showed me the possibilities of a life free from active addiction. Over time I came to believe that being employed and off the street was not enough. Until I stopped using, whether the drugs were legal or illegal, I was not going to experience the full benefits of recovery.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 3: A Spiritual Path, Conscious Contact*** it also tells us: *“Prayer helps us to let go of our fear and distrust and to live in faith. We don’t have to understand it for it to work. We open the door to a faith deep within that allows us to meet adversity with serenity. “I strive to practice prayer in every moment,” said one member. “Of course I fail every day, but it is changing my perspective. I am very aware of the fragility and preciousness of life.” Instead of giving so much thought to why things happen, we look for what we can learn. A member shared, “In early recovery my prayers were sporadic acts of desperation and surrender. I learned prayer as a way to practice conscious contact. Now I find if I can remember my Higher Power in the moment, my life becomes a prayer, my wisdom is activated in meditation, and I exist within the will of my Higher Power. I am spiritually free, the farthest from active addiction and the closest to the pure joy of existence in the moment.”


*(Choice, Conscious Contact, Experience, Faith, Full Benefits of Recovery, God of my understanding, Joy, Practical Wisdom, Prayer, Quiet Example, Roof Over My Head, Serenity, Spiritual Wisdom, Surrender, Two Kinds of Wisdom)*
