---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Dec 25
title: Words of Wisdom
---

God of my understanding,

Life is sometimes hard, and I am not sure how to handle it. I screw up and I make mistakes. I am so grateful that You put people in my life to help me sort through these difficulties. Grant me this day an open mind and good ears to listen for words of wisdom that may help me along my journey. Grant me humility to admit my mistakes and learn from them.

Amen

In our ***IT WORKS HOW AND WHY, BOOK ONE: The Twelve Steps, Step Seven*** it tells us: *“Through working the previous steps, we see that attaining humility is necessary if we are going to live a clean life and walk a spiritual path. An attitude of humility is not the same as humiliation, nor is it a denial of our good qualities. On the contrary, an attitude of humility means that we have a realistic view of ourselves and our place in the world. In the Seventh Step, humility means understanding our role in our own recovery, appreciating our strengths and limitations, and having faith in a Power greater than ourselves. To work the Seventh Step, we must get out of the way so that God can do God’s work. Humbly asking for the removal of our shortcomings means we are giving complete license to that loving Power to work in our lives, believing that God’s wisdom far exceeds our own.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 3: A Spiritual Path, Conscious Contact*** it also tells us: *“The conscious contact we speak of in the Eleventh Step is a relationship with our Higher Power. Intimacy is conscious contact with another human being. We connect. As we get close to others we see the divine in them, and we see it in ourselves as well. We pay attention to them, and to ourselves when we’re with them. When we feel real joy at seeing a struggling member finally get that thirty-day keytag, when we find the words we didn’t know we had in us, when we make a genuine connection with another human being and feel something shift inside of us—we feel love in action, flowing through us, changing us for the better.”*

*(Connection, Faith, God of my understanding, God’s wisdom far exceeds our own, Gratitude, Humility, Joy, Keytags, Listening, Live a Clean Life, Open Mind, Spiritual, Steps, Strength, Walk a Spiritual Path, We Feel Love in Action, Wisdom)*
