---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Dec 27
title: You Are My Friend
---

God of my understanding,

You seek me out and walk with me as I follow this path. Give me a brighter vision so that I may focus on all that is right in the world. Help me to keep a positive outlook as I walk through my days. Help me to give freely what has been given to me. Let me walk through this day knowing that You are my friend.

Amen

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Four, How It Works, Step Eleven*** it tells us: *“In an attitude of surrender and humility, we approach this step again and again to receive the gift of knowledge and strength from the God of our understanding. The Tenth Step clears away the errors of the present so we may work the Eleventh Step. Without this step, it is unlikely that we could experience a spiritual awakening, practice spiritual principles in our lives or carry a sufficient message to attract others to recovery. There is a spiritual principle of giving away what we have been given in Narcotics Anonymous in order to keep it. By helping others to stay clean, we enjoy the benefit of the spiritual wealth that we have found. We must give freely and gratefully that which has been freely and gratefully given to us.”*

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Four, How It Works, Step Twelve*** it also tells us: *“We attend meetings and make ourselves visible and available to serve the Fellowship. We give freely and gratefully of our time, service, and what we have found here. The service we speak of in Narcotics Anonymous is the primary purpose of our groups. Service work is carrying the message to the addict who still suffers. The more eagerly we wade in and work, the richer our spiritual awakening will be.*

*The first way that we carry the message speaks for itself. People see us on the street and remember us as devious, frightened loners. They notice the fear leaving our faces. They see us gradually come alive.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 5: Relationships, the courage to trust*** it also tells us: *“Self-support is a spiritual principle, and learning to support our own spirits is a critical part of our development. Of course, we don’t just “go it alone.” We have the group, we have our sponsor and trusted friends, and we have a Higher Power that helps us carry on. We share our triumphs and burdens with our partner, but learn not to make them responsible for our moods or the overall quality of our lives. When we can have a bad day without insisting our partner also be miserable, we know something is really changing. “The first time I came home angry, and my girlfriend started in, and I didn’t say the next wrong thing, I knew a Higher Power was working in my life,” said one member.”*

*(Attitude, Awakening, Change, Focus, Gift of Knowledge and Strength, God of our understanding, Grateful, Higher Power, Humility, Positive Outlook, Self-support, Service, Sharing, Spiritual Principles, Sponsor and Trusted Friends, Surrender, The Group, Vision)*
