---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Dec 28
title: You Are Not Alone
---

Did you ever have one of those days that was just good all the way around? The God of my understanding, that I found in Narcotics Anonymous, has blessed me with many of these kinds of days. I don’t think I can say that about my days when I was active in my addiction. Sure, there were good times, times when I wasn’t in trouble; and those days were marked by luck when I was still getting high. Drugging became more and more a part of my life. Using drugs never seemed to slow down. But I really don’t think I could ever say that I had a really good day – a day when I was at peace with the world and with myself. Using just seemed to take any real joy out of the day.

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Three, Why Are We Here?*** it tells us: *“We were searching for an answer when we reached out and found Narcotics Anonymous. We came to our first NA meeting in defeat and didn’t know what to expect. After sitting in a meeting, or several meetings, we began to feel that people cared and were willing to help. Although our minds told us that we would never make it, the people in the Fellowship gave us hope by insisting that we could recover. We found that no matter what our past thoughts or actions were, others had felt and done the same. Surrounded by fellow addicts, we realized that we were not alone anymore. Recovery is what happens in our meetings. Our lives are at stake. We found that by putting recovery first, the program works. We faced three disturbing realizations:*

*1. We are powerless over addiction and our lives are unmanageable;*

*2. Although we are not responsible for our disease, we are responsible for our recovery;*

*3. We can no longer blame people, places and things for our addiction.*

*We must face our problems and our feelings.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 4: Our Physical Selves, Death, Dying and Living with Grief*** it also tells us: *“In moments of great pain, a deep stillness comes over us; in those moments, we can see the depths of the darkness within us but also the enormity of the power to which we are connected. The terrible grief we feel can bring us a conscious contact that nothing else ever could. The impulse to withdraw, to pull away from noise and crowds and even from the people who support us the most, is often a form of self-protection: We can be so afraid of shaking loose the feelings again that we barely want to move. But letting the people we trust come and support us reminds us that we are not alone, even in our coldest moments. And allowing people to help us can be a form of service to them as well: When we let someone love us at a vulnerable time, they—and we—are rewarded. The caring and sharing we talk about is a two-way street, and those of us who are practiced at giving often have a hard time letting others love us back.”*

*(Blessings, Caring, Conscious Contact, Fellowship, God of our understanding, Joy, Letting Others Love Us, Love, Never Alone Never Again, Responsible, Service, Sharing, Sponsorship, Trust, Willing to Help)*