---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Dec 29
title: No Monsters
---

Sometimes I just don’t understand where the fear suddenly comes from, but I open my eyes, and it feels like monsters surround me. Those monsters all have names: worry, anxiety, judgment, condemnation and many others. Each of us has our own set of monsters, those things or people or situations we just dread dealing with. Life would be so much simpler if we did not have these monsters. However, life is not like that; everyone has these issues. When my heart starts pounding and I get that lump in my throat, it is important for me to take a deep breath and remember that I am not alone. There are all those addicts that went before me and had to face the same monsters.

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Ten, More Will Be Revealed*** it tells us: *“We become able to make wise and loving decisions, based on principles and ideals that have real value in our lives. By shaping our thoughts with spiritual ideals, we are freed to become who we want to be. What we had feared, we can now overcome through our dependence on a loving God. Faith has replaced our fear and given us freedom from ourselves.*

*In recovery, we also strive for gratitude. We feel grateful for ongoing God-consciousness. Whenever we confront a difficulty that we do not think we can handle, we ask God to do for us what we cannot do for ourselves.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 1: Living Clean, Key to Freedom*** it also tells us: *“Our self-made prisons no longer serve us. We are free to explore and discover what we are good at. We are free to participate, create, care and share, surprise ourselves, take risks, be vulnerable, and stand on our own two feet. We find our beliefs and begin to act on them. We make decisions based on our values. We walk through fear and wake up to the miracles that surround us. We are free to be who we are and live as we choose.”*

*(Beliefs, Faith, Free, God of my understanding, Gratitude, Loneliness, Make Wise and Loving Decisions, Miracles, Principles and Ideals, Real Value In Our Lives, Spiritual, Take a Deep Breath and Remember That I Am Not Alone)*
