---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Dec 30
title: You Need To Ask
---

Being very self-centered makes it hard to ask others for help. I perceived this as a sign of weakness. Asking for help meant I was not successful in managing my own life. I had to admit that my life was unmanageable.

Then my sponsor asked me a question, “If you cut yourself, would you stitch yourself up; or would you go to the emergency room?” His question was valid. I needed help, and I had to ask for it. Fortunately the God of my understanding, that I found in Narcotics Anonymous, put people in my life that I could turn to for help.

Am I too proud to ask for help when I need it?

In our ***IT WORKS HOW AND WHY, BOOK ONE: The Twelve Steps, Step Two*** it tells us: *“The longer we stay clean, the more evident it becomes that our addiction goes much deeper than the drugs we used. Much of our problem seems to center in our search for something to make us feel whole. It is a tremendous struggle to stop relying on our own reasoning and ask for help, especially given the self-centered nature of our disease. However, we are becoming open-minded. In realizing that we don’t have all the answers, we begin to find some humility. We may not grasp the full impact of what being humble means, but our open-mindedness assures us that we have found and have begun to demonstrate this valuable quality.*

*Our humility and open-mindedness make us teachable. We allow others to share what has worked for them. This takes humility, for we must let go of our fears about how we may appear to others. Some of the strongest suggestions we may receive from other addicts are to attend meetings, ask for help, pray, and work the steps. Our experience has shown us that belief in a Higher Power leads us toward recovery in Narcotics Anonymous. People tend to live what they believe, and our newfound belief calls on us to live the program. No matter what we choose for our personal Higher Power, we’ve come to believe that NA works. We live what we believe by continuing on our path of recovery and working the Twelve Steps to the best of our ability.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 7: The Journey Continues, Being of Service*** it also tells us: *“The desire to be of service changes our relationship to the world. It’s not just in NA that we are loving and giving. We connect to the love that surrounds us by practicing loving actions, and being open to receiving the same. Being willing to accept help is a form of giving. It can be uncomfortable to admit a need, or to ask for help. When we allow another person to step up and help us, we give them a chance to express their own love and generosity. When we reach out to help, we receive much more than we give. In some places, after the closing prayer at the meetings, NA members say, “Keep coming back!” In other places, they say, “Go help someone!” Both come from the understanding that when we give, and when we allow others to give, we find a connection to a power greater than ourselves.”*

*(Acceptance, Ask For Help, Belief, Experience, Give, Go Help Someone, God of my understanding, Humility, Keep Coming Back, Love and Generosity, Open-mindedness, Pray, Relationship to the World, Share What Has Worked, Stay Clean, Steps, Stop Relying On Our Own Reasoning, Teachable)*
