---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Dec 31
title: You Will Have Enough
---
Sometimes it is important for me to go off to a quiet place and be in relationship with the God of my understanding. He is a friend that cares for me no matter what. I have unconditional acceptance. I don’t need to pretend, cover up or hide my brokenness. I am accepted for who I am. This does not mean I am not encouraged to change the things I can – quite the contrary. I go to the quiet place to find restoration, guidance and power. I find what I need Just For Today. I do not get what I need for a week or a month, but what I need Just For Today; and it is enough. This is one of the gifts of the Narcotics Anonymous program. I can rest assured that I will have enough courage, enough strength and enough wisdom Just For Today.

Am I satisfied with enough, or am I still looking for more?

In our ***IT WORKS HOW AND WHY, BOOK ONE: The Twelve Steps, Step Twelve*** it tells us: *“The principle of unconditional love is expressed in our attitude. Anyone who reaches out for help is entitled to our compassion, our attention, and our unconditional acceptance. Any addict, regardless of clean time, should be able to pour out his or her pain in an atmosphere free of judgment. Most of us have found that we are able to feel great empathy for those who suffer from our disease precisely because it is our disease. Our empathy isn’t abstract, nor is our understanding. Instead, it is born in shared experience. We greet each other with the recognition reserved for survivors of the same nearly fatal catastrophe. This shared experience, more than anything else, contributes “to the atmosphere of unconditional love in our meetings.*

*Helping others is perhaps the highest aspiration of the human heart and something we have been entrusted with as a result of a Higher Power working in our lives. We would do well to remember to ask the God of our understanding to continue working through us in our efforts to carry the message. Diligently practicing the principles of recovery will ensure that the connection between ourselves and our Higher Power remains open and that our service to others is firmly rooted in spirituality.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 3: A Spiritual Path, A Spiritual, Not Religious Program*** it also tells us: “*We cannot pretend that spirituality is not central to the NA program or the NA way of life. But there is room within that for people of all beliefs—including those with no belief at all. Our right to our own spirituality in NA is unconditional, and that also means we must allow that right to others. It’s not very complicated, but this is one area of our recovery that we seem to love to complicate. Any single definition of spiritual principles would be too restrictive for us. Our traditions remind us that NA is not a place where any single spiritual path is endorsed.”*

*(Atmosphere Free of Judgment, Change the Things I Can, Courage, God of my understanding, Just For Today, Meditation, NA Way of Life, Our Attention, Our Compassion, Our Unconditional Acceptance, Principles of Recovery, Relationship, Steps, Strength, Unconditional Love, Wisdom)*

Happy New Years Eve!