---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Feb 01
title: Belief
---
For the atheist or agnostic, the Narcotics Anonymous program can be a hard pill to swallow. All the talk of My Higher Power, a Power Greater, a God of my understanding and spirituality can make involvement with the Twelve Step program of Narcotics Anonymous very difficult. But the reality is that all addicts must find a Power outside of themselves if they want to recover.

 

My own power does not work. I have tried and tried my way, and it does not work. I lack the power needed to overcome my compulsion to use. To continue on a path of self-reliance means certain disaster.

 

When I first came around, I told my sponsor that I did not want to hear that three letter word, so he suggested G•O•D Good Orderly Direction that I find in the Steps and Traditions of Narcotics Anonymous.

 

And you can also use G•O•D Gift Of Desperation that we find at the end of the road. “Only in desperation did we ask ourselves, “Could it be the drugs?”

 

In our ***Basic Text***, ***Chapter Four, How It Works, Step Eleven*** it tells us: *“The nature of our belief will determine the manner of our prayers and meditations. We need only make sure that we have a system of belief that works for us. Results count in recovery. As has been noted elsewhere, our prayers seemed to work as soon as we entered the Program of Narcotics Anonymous and we surrendered to our disease. The conscious contact described in this step is the direct result of living the steps. We use this step to improve and maintain our spiritual condition.”*

 

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 6: A New Way of Life, Stability*** it also tells us: *“There are some signs that help us to distinguish serenity from complacency: When we get judgmental, ungrateful, and agitated, we’re probably on the wrong side of that line. When interacting with others starts to seem exhausting or burdensome, or we forget that we are important to others, we might be slipping back into self-obsession. When we’re feeling apathetic and that we are important to others, we might be slipping back into self-obsession. When we’re feeling apathetic and ungrateful, we say we’re “bored.” Boredom usually means we can’t see past ourselves. We get lost in pettiness and illusion. The world is as boring or exciting as we make it. A member shared, “When one day starts to run into another, it’s usually because I’m not living my beliefs.” When we revert to old behavior, we need to get back to basics. Cleantime does not exempt us from getting stuck. Sometimes a new perspective on our lives requires a new look at the steps. We may find that a better attitude is really all we need—or it may be time to make some changes in our lives.*

 

*We are able to recognize our responsibility for our actions and motives more often, and sooner in the process. Identifying what drives us helps us to find relief from all the ways the disease shows up in our lives. It also gives us the ability to move toward what we want, and not just away from what we fear.”*

 

*(Attitude, Basics, Belief, Changes, Desperation, Gift Of Desperation, God of my understanding, Good Orderly Direction, Higher Power, Prayers and Meditations, Power Greater, Responsibility, Serenity, Spirituality, Steps, Surrender)*