---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Feb 02
title: Believe in Yourself
---
Something else that I have gained as a result of staying clean is the ability to believe in myself. I had become convinced that I was a loser. I knew that there was no way to trust myself or my ability to make good decisions. I had no self-confidence. This did not change simply because I stopped using. However, the longer I stayed clean and the more I used the tools of the Narcotics Anonymous program, the more I was able to begin to make rational healthy choices in my life.

 At first, my self-confidence remained very low, but the Narcotics Anonymous program gave me something else to rely on. I could rely on the people I saw at meetings. I could rely on a God of my understanding. I could rely on the steps. Today I also have developed a healthy ability to make better decisions. I discovered that I am not a loser; I simply behaved like one when I was using drugs. I can believe in myself again, and I can trust my gut. I do not rely solely on myself as this would be foolish, but I can now make an informed decision on when to trust my gut and when I need to ask for help.

 In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Four, How It Works*** it tells us: *“These are some of the questions we have asked ourselves: Are we sure we want to stop using? Do we understand that we have no real control over drugs? Do we recognize that in the long run, we didn’t use drugs—they used us? Did jails and institutions take over the management of our lives at different times? Do we fully accept the fact that our every attempt to stop using or to control our using failed? Do we know that our addiction changed us into someone we didn’t want to be: dishonest, deceitful, self-willed people at odds with ourselves and our fellow man? Do we really believe that we have failed as drug users?”*

 In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 6: A New Way of Life, Finding Our Place in the World*** it also tells us: *“We may change because we choose to, or change may happen as a result of circumstances beyond our control. Our lives require ongoing maintenance, and our definitions of success change as life gives and takes. “I had success in all areas of my life. After a change in my career and a move to a new town, it was all gone—my success, self-esteem, even my joy in participation at NA meetings. I was an oldtimer and I didn’t know what to do. I began to understand that my recovery and self-worth were based in externals. When success and approval left, I collapsed. A new perspective and a walk through the steps from a different angle were necessary.” Comparing our current problems to the problems we had in active addiction can be a tactic we use to avoid dealing with them. We sometimes belittle the struggles we face as “gold-plated problems,” but if we ignore them we may get a “gold-plated” relapse. Ultimately, our success is measured not from the outside but from the inside. When we apply the principles in our lives we succeed in many ways, but most of all we become whole.”*

 *(Acceptance, Ask For Help, Become Whole, Comparing, God of my understanding, Honesty, Maintenance, Measured from the Inside, Members, New Perspective, Principles, Self-confidence, Self-esteem, Staying Clean, Steps, Tools of the Narcotics Anonymous Program, Trust, We)*