---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Feb 03
title: Blueprints For Life
---
God of my understanding,

You provide me with a new set of blueprints for my life. Teach me to use the stones and bricks to build a solid foundation in my recovery. Let me find places in my life to build bridges in the relationships harmed by my addiction. Each day, let me cross these bridges without fear.

Amen

In our ***IP #21, The Loner: Staying Clean in Isolation*** it tells us: *“The Twelve Steps are our blueprint for recovery from the disease of addiction. As we continually practice these steps, we come to live the program.”*

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Ten, More Will Be Revealed*** it also tells us: *“We get relief through the Twelve Steps, which are essential to the recovery process, because they are a new, spiritual way of life that allows us to participate in our own recovery.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 2: The Ties That Bind, Connection to a Higher Power*** it also tells us: *“After years clean, we experience ourselves differently than we did in the beginning. As we develop an identity beyond “addict,” we wonder whether that label still applies, whether we still belong in the fellowship. We tend to learn balance by bouncing off both extremes. Questioning our relationship with NA can take it to a deeper level. The answers we find help to resolve our new reservations, and the security to question our foundation is part of the secret to solidifying it for a lifetime.*

*It is said that those wishing to discover a new land must spend a long time at sea. Sometimes when we feel like we are lost at sea, we may wonder whether the program still matters for us. We are afraid to doubt because we know it can kill us, but the fear of questioning our new way of life can lead us to be dishonest with ourselves. NA isn’t about learning to be compliant; it’s about establishing a relationship with something greater than ourselves, and often that relationship can be a little stormy. It is important to know there are members who will give us space to question our recovery, but don’t quite let go of us, either. Though some people will be unsure how to respond to our doubt, sharing our feelings can help us to see that we are not alone. In moments of extreme uncertainty, “fake it ’til ya make it” is exactly the wrong prescription, even though it may work just fine at other times. We need to be brutally honest with ourselves about what we feel and what we believe. Out of these moments of doubt can grow a faith that is truly our own. We can neither deny nor indulge these feelings; they must be handled with care.”*

*(Balance, Believe, Faith, Feelings, Foundation, Identity, live the Program, Participate, Relationship, Security, Sharing Our Feelings, Solidifying, Spirituality, The Twelve Steps of Narcotics Anonymous*)