---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Feb 04
title: Breathe
---
Sometimes I find that my day seems to be too busy. I have too much going on. I can even get overwhelmed. My sponsor used to remind me to breathe. It was her way of saying, “Slow down; easy does it; but do it” It was her way of reminding me to walk through the day knowing that the God of my understanding would only give me what I could handle. It was her way of saying to me that the God of my understanding would give me what I needed to make it through the day. Breathe! I have confidence that the God of my understanding will give me everything I can handle.

In our ***Basic Text, Our Members Share, Coming Home, Restored to Dignity*** it tells us: *“What happened to me is truly a miracle. I am still clean, ever since that first encounter with NA at the beach. Years have gone by, and now I live with dignity. My first months clean were beautiful, because I was being taken care of. I hope that all addicts who are seeking recovery have the opportunity to receive as much love and attention as I did when I first came to meetings, because I got just what I needed and much more.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 6: A New Way of Life, Finding Our Place in the World*** it also tells us: *“Some of us are naturally dynamic and thrive on a lot of color and excitement. We might worry that life we are comfortable with might not be very exciting. Letting go of our attachment to drama makes it possible to enjoy simple things without feeling we must constantly make something happen. We discover that we can be passionate about our lives as they really are. We learn that the kind of work required to live a good life is not nearly as difficult as the kind of work that results from sabotaging our own efforts. We spent years creating wreckage, damage, and drama; and then cleaning it up to make room for more. When we are spinning our wheels in chaos of our own making, our sponsor might ask us, “What are you running from?” After we stop this destructive cycle, we can see how much it requires of us. We find that we can be radiant without being radioactive. When we’re finally able to settle down and breathe, our lives get much easier. That space gives us room to look around and ask ourselves what we love about our lives, and what we might want to change.”*

*(Change, Dignity, Effort, Enjoy Simple Things, God of my understanding, Letting Go, Life, Love and Attention, Meditation, Miracle, Opportunities, Passionate, Sponsor, Steps, What Are You Running From, What I Could Handle)*