---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Feb 05
title: "Bringing Meaning Back "
---
I will search after the Divine Spirit in life and trust that the God of my understanding will bring meaning back into my life. I will search to improve my conscious contact with the God of my understanding. For in doing this, I know that I will find the answers I am looking for. I know that when I search after this Higher Purpose, I find not only what I am looking for; but I also find what I need.

I begin to be satisfied with my life. I no longer feel such an urgency to control things. I'm focused on a higher purpose instead of on myself. My regrets begin to disappear. My active addiction no longer seems like such a tragedy and a waste as I see how I can use that experience to serve a higher purpose: carrying the message to the addict who still suffers. In Step Twelve, we will explore some ways of doing that, and see how practicing the principles of recovery is essential to such an effort.

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Four, How It Works, Step Eleven*** it tells us: *“The first ten steps have set the stage for us to improve our conscious contact with the God of our understanding. They give us the foundation to achieve our long-sought, positive goals. Having entered this phase of our spiritual program through practicing the previous ten steps, most of us welcome the exercise of prayers and meditation. Our spiritual condition is the basis for a successful recovery that pop growth.*

*Many of us really begin to appreciate our recovery when we get to the Eleventh Step. In the Eleventh Step, our lives take on a deeper meaning. By surrendering control, we gain a far greater power.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 7: The Journey Continues, Awakenings*** it also tells us: *“A spiritual awakening is just that—an awakening. We still have to get out of bed. Some people awaken for just a moment and then doze off again. If we want to stay awake and alive, if we want the miracle of recovery to continue to unfold in our lives, we find ways to put this awakening into action. If we are not carrying the message, we go to sleep again.”*

*(Awake and Alive, Awakening, Bring Meaning Back, Carrying the Message, Conscious Contact, Higher Purpose,* *Miracle of Recovery, Prayers and Meditation, Spiritual Awakening, Steps, Successful Recovery, Surrendering Control)*