---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Feb 06
title: "Build and Maintain "
---
The very moment that I see that something is wrong or in need of repair, the obligation to fix the problem begins. If I notice a small leak in the plumbing or a drain not working properly and I ignore this problem, bigger problems can emerge. If a plug is not working properly, it is a signal that something is wrong. Ongoing maintenance of my recovery program is essential. I have been given this home called recovery, and I have an obligation to care for it. If I do not, over time the home becomes dilapidated. I must value this new home. I will rest secure in the knowledge that my new home will bring me years and years of happiness.

Each of us has been given the gift of recovery and we can demonstrate our gratitude by reaching out to every person who walks into an Narcotics Anonymous meeting. As one newcomer said to a member who gave him a smile and hug, “It’s been a long time since anyone offered me a hug.”

As a group member do I remember that “recovery” is an action word and that I can only keep what I have only with vigilance?

In our ***IT WORKS HOW AND WHY, BOOK ONE: The Twelve Steps, Step Three*** it tells us: *“We begin to see positive results from the decision we have made. We begin to notice changes. While the circumstances of our lives may not change, the way we deal with those circumstances does. Because we have made the decision to allow spiritual principles to work in our lives, we may notice a sense of relief. We are being relieved of a burden we’ve carried far too long: the need to control everything and everyone. We begin to react differently to the situations and people around us. As we gain acceptance, we cease to struggle against life on life’s terms. Striving to maintain and build on our surrender, we are better able to live and enjoy life in the moment.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 1: Living Clean*** it also tells us: *“Living clean is a lifelong journey, and the NA program gives us tools to build a life infused with hope.”*

*... “Finding the balance is an ongoing negotiation. Attending meetings regularly doesn’t have to mean every night of the week, but meetings continue to matter for our own well-being and for our ability to carry the message. Keeping that lifeline strong and ready is a matter of continuing maintenance. It gets easier when we let go of the idea that it ought to be hard.”*

*(Acceptance, Action, Atmosphere of Recovery, Balance, Change, Gift of Recovery, Gratitude, Hope, Hugs, Let Go, Life on Life’s Terms, Lifelong Journey, Living Clean, Maintenance, Meetings, Service, Spiritual Principles, Strong and Ready, Surrender, Tools)*