---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Feb 07
title: Building Blocks
---
Honesty, fellowship, faith in the God of my understanding, and caring are the building blocks of the Narcotics Anonymous program. I can never fully attain these goals. Yet these are the things I need to build on if I am to be successful in recovery. Honesty is where it all starts. I must find honesty with my addiction. If I continue to lie to myself about having this disease, I stand no chance of getting better. We each surrounded ourselves with people to support our addiction versus surrounding ourselves with the fellowship that supports recovery.

Learning to have faith in the God of my understanding can and will do for me that I can’t do on my own is an important factor in the quality of my recovery. And finally, learning to really care for others and for myself is what working the steps is all about.

Am I including these building blocks in the foundation of my recovery?

In our ***IT WORKS HOW AND WHY, BOOK ONE: The Twelve Steps, Step One*** it tells us: *“Perhaps we arrived in NA without recognizing the problems we had for what they were. Because of our self-centeredness, we were often the last ones to realize that we were addicts. Many of us were persuaded by friends or family to begin attending NA meetings. Other members received even stronger encouragement from the courts. No matter how it occurred, our long-standing illusions had to be shattered. Honesty had to replace denial before we could face the truth of our addiction.*

*Many of us recall the moment of clarity when we came face to face with our disease. All the lies, all the pretenses, all the rationalizations we had used to justify where we stood as a result of our drug use stopped working. Who and what we were became more clear. We could no longer avoid the truth.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 2: The Ties That Bind, Connection to the World Around Us*** it also tells us: *“The tools we use to build our foundation are not the only tools we need later on. It’s not that they lose their value. The basics are always important—but at some point they may not be enough to sustain us. When we arrive at a moment when everything we know is not enough for us, we turn to members with more experience. We are likely to get the same simple guidance we have heard from the beginning: The answers are in the steps. A deeper relationship with the steps continues to develop even after we have worked them many times. For some of us, consistent practices of prayer, meditation, writing, or physical exercise are useful in the beginning but grow richer over time. The simple fact of having maintained a practice for a long time offers a structure for our program that we can depend on.”*

*(Caring, Clarity, Faith, Fellowship, Foundation, God of my understanding, Honesty, Learning, Meditation, Moment of Clarity, Physical Exercise, Practices, Prayer, Steps, Successful, The Beginning, Tools, Truth, Writing)*