---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Feb 08
title: Building “Forts”
---
I remember building “forts” as a child. Sometimes I made them with an old blanket that I draped over a table. Later I made them out of sticks, limbs, and leaves as I found in the woods. Inside my fort I always felt safe. Narcotics Anonymous is a lot like that. If I build a secure foundation, strong walls and a roof that doesn’t leak, I feel safe. Through active participation at meetings, talking with a sponsor and listening to the winners, I found the building blocks to help me feel safe in recovery. Real security came with knowing that as long as I remained active in the Narcotics Anonymous fellowship and worked the steps, I would find that the promise was there for me. And that promise is freedom from active addiction.

Am I working to make my recovery secure?

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Seven, Recovery and Relapse*** it tells us: *"The first thing to do is to stay clean. This makes the other stages of recovery possible. As long as we stay clean, no matter what, we have the greatest possible advantage over our disease. For this we are grateful.*

*Many of us get clean in a protected environment, such as a rehabilitation center or recovery house. When we re-enter the world, we feel lost, confused and vulnerable. Going to meetings as often as possible will reduce the shock of change. Meetings provide a safe place to share with others. We begin to live the program; we learn to apply spiritual principles in our lives. We must use what we learn, or we will lose it in a relapse."*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 7: The Journey Continues, Living Our Principles*** it also tells us: *“We rely on a strong foundation, and we never stop working on it. We know what we can expect when we walk into an NA meeting, and that makes us feel safe and secure. We may resist changes to the format or style of our meetings even when they’re a good idea, because we hold so tightly to that sameness. Making changes can be a challenge in other areas of our lives as well. When we’re experiencing change, we want to hurry back to a place of comfort and familiarity. Allowing ourselves to have an emotional life without being controlled by our feelings is a new freedom.”*

*(Active Participation, Change, Experiencing, Feelings, Fellowship, Foundation, Freedom, Meetings, No Matter What, Safe, Secure, Spiritual Principles, Sponsor, Stay Clean, Steps)*