---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Feb 09
title: "Calm in Knowing "
---
Just For Today I will be calm and know that each day presents new challenges and new rewards. I will be calm because I know and trust that the promise is real and that I can have it if I do the work and follow the God of my understanding's direction. Sometimes I hear people say that He is in the driver’s seat. I do not follow that logic. I am the one who has to walk the walk. I am the one who must be responsible for my recovery. I am the one that needs to be in the driver’s seat. But I do want Him to show me the way.

Am I doing all that I must do to be responsible for my recovery?

Do I ask the God of my understanding for direction along the way?

In our ***IP#7 Am I an Addict? Revised*** it tells us: *"We faced three disturbing realizations:*

 *           1. We are powerless over addiction and our lives are unmanageable;*

 *           2. Although we are not responsible for our disease, we are responsible for our recovery;*

 *           3. We can no longer blame people, places and things for our addiction. We must face our problems and our             feelings.*

*The ultimate weapon for recovery is the recovering addict.”*

In our ***IT WORKS HOW AND WHY, BOOK ONE: The Twelve Steps, Step Six*** it also tells us: *“When we are confronted with our character defects, either by our own insight or by someone we have hurt, we begin by taking complete responsibility for our actions. We don’t avoid responsibility by saying something like, “Well, God hasn’t removed that defect yet” or “I’m powerless over my defects, and that’s just the way I’m going to be.” We accept responsibility for our behavior—good, bad, or indifferent. We no longer have our drug use or our ignorance as an excuse to be irresponsible.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 7: The Journey Continues, Living Our Principles*** it also tells us: *“Knowing our spirituality cannot be taken from us gives us permission to hope in a new way. Many of us are uncomfortable with hope. We have been so deeply disappointed in our lives that hope just feels like a bad idea. Some of us can’t tell the difference between hope and wishing. But the hope we get in recovery is not that we will win the lottery or that our true love will return to us. Hope begins when we think that it might be possible for us to stop using against our own will and stay clean. We find it again and again as our journey continues: In the dark moments when we realize we can go on anyway, and in our triumphs—it is possible. It’s possible we can break the cycle, it’s possible we can exceed our dreams, it’s possible that we are much more than we ever gave ourselves credit for. Each time we realize it’s possible, our faith grows stronger. Hope doesn’t end. No matter how much better or worse it gets, we know that there is still reason to look forward. We begin to experience unconditional hope.”*

*(Acceptance, Calm, Clean, Experience Unconditional Hope, Face Our Problems and Our Feelings, Faith, God of my understanding, Hope, No Longer Blame, Promise, Taking Complete Responsibility, Stay Clean, Ultimate Weapon, Work and Follow Directions)*