---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Feb 10
title: Calmness
---
I must learn to live life in a way that petty annoyances do not weigh me down. I can make healthy choices not to react to emotional unrest in others with emotional unrest of my own. I can hold onto the inner peace that the God of my understanding gives me even in the most difficult of situations. I can learn to allow this inner calmness to be my guide in my interactions with others. I no longer need to pick fights with others, and I no longer need to accept invitations to argue with others. This does not mean that I avoid problems; rather I seek solutions to the problems that may arise in and around me.

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Nine, Just For Today—Living the Program*** it tells us: *“Many of us have found that setting aside quiet time for ourselves is helpful in making conscious contact with our Higher Power By quieting the mind, meditation can lead us to calmness and serenity. This quieting of the mind can be done in any place, time, or manner, according to the individual.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 2: The Ties That Bind, Connection to Others*** it also tells us: *“When we do the work of helping people get clean, something changes inside us. We discover the magic, the gift, when we see the light come on in someone’s eyes. We learn to get out of our self-obsession. So many of our solutions are in service. We reap the rewards of our efforts as long as we keep coming back. The addict we reach out to in a moment of need may well be the person who saves our life later.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 6: Work*** it also tells us: *“One way we practice these principles is to be of service to our employer. Some members have asked themselves: “How do I practice unity at work? How do I let my HP be in charge during my workday? What is the primary purpose of this workplace, and how can I help achieve that? What is my primary purpose here?” Whatever our job is, when we can see it as an opportunity to practice our principles it becomes a worthy use of our time. A member shared: “Responsibility used to feel like a burden to me. Learning to see it as a way to do my Higher Power’s will made it feel like a privilege.” With spiritual principles as our guide, we can be an asset wherever we are. Often the people around us see our value before we do. Perhaps most of all, when we are spiritually connected, creativity flows through us. This doesn’t necessarily mean that we paint or make music (though it can), but that we can see solutions to problems and find satisfaction in doing whatever we do as best we can.”*

*(Acceptance, Gift, God of our understanding, Healthy Choices, Inner Calmness, Interactions, Keep Coming Back, Learn, Meditation, Peace, Principles, Quiet Time, Responsibility, Serenity, Service, Solutions to the Problems, We Do As Best We Can)*