---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Feb 11
title: Carrying the Message
---
We tried to carry the message to those who still suffered, and we practiced these principles in all our affairs. For each of us in recovery there will come a time when we will have the opportunity to share our experience, strength and hope with others. And this is what the program asks of us. We do not turn from this responsibility but instead welcome the opportunity. We tell our story and share what has worked for us, what didn’t and where we hope to be by continuing our journey. By giving away what we have learned, we are able to keep it.

 In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Six, The Twelve Traditions of Narcotics Anonymous, Tradition Five*** it tells us: *“What is our message? The message is that an addict, any addict, can stop using drugs, lose the desire to use, and find a new way to live. Our message is hope and the promise of freedom. When all is said and done, our primary purpose can only be to carry the message to the addict who still suffers because that is all we have to give.”*

 In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 7: The Journey Continues, Principles, Practice, and Perspective*** it also tells us: *“NA service must always be done in the spirit of carrying the message to the addict who still suffers. This is our fellowship’s primary purpose, and when we deviate from that we open the door to distracting influences. But there is rarely a time when our motives are entirely pure. Selfless service is our goal, but one of the things that makes service so rewarding is the knowledge that we are valuable and useful. It’s not that the service we do is either entirely selfless or all about getting an ego-fix. The work we do can keep us together while we’re waiting to feel good about ourselves. Our acceptance of that allows us to improve rather “than to pretend we have it all together. It’s not selfish to know that having a purpose makes us feel better. If we are acting in goodwill—doing the right thing for the right reasons—we are sure to benefit. Each of us has something to give, and allowing us to do that is part of helping each other to recover. It’s an ongoing process. We find a niche for ourselves, learn to be comfortable there, outgrow it, and find a new one. Each time we learn something about ourselves, and often we learn to do something new. A member shared, “It seems like the more experience I get, the more inexperienced I realize I am.”*

 *(Able to Keep It, Acceptance, Any Addict, Carrying the Message, Doing the Right Thing for the Reasons, Experience, Freedom, Give It Away, Goodwill, Hope, Lose the Desire, Principles, Primary Purpose, Promises, Steps, Strength, Traditions)*