---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Feb 12
title: Celebrations
---
I can remember when I was amazement when someone would go back out, but now I understand the odds are against us and now I am amazed with our members who stick and stay.

Just For Today, I celebrate new -- Anniversaries of Recovery! There is something utterly amazing about speaking up at a meeting and saying, “Yes, I have three months.” It is more incredible to say one year, two years, ten years or more. I've been to some conventions and seen people celebrate 20, 30, 40, 50 or more years of being clean. When you talk with these people and ask them how they did it, all of them tell you, “It is because of the Narcotics Anonymous program and a solid relationship with the God of their understanding.”

In our ***Basic Text, Our Members Share, Regardless of..., I Was Unique*** it tells us: *“Through the process of studying, writing, working, and ultimately, living the Twelve Steps of Narcotics Anonymous I have been brought down a path which has led me to a new relationship with the God of my understanding. That alone demonstrates the power for change that the program can bring about. And that change, when multiplied through many addicts, will make the world a better place for all, addict and nonaddict alike.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 6: A New Way of Life, Commitment*** it also tells us: *“Goals are dreams we put into action. We can understand the work and measure our progress more easily if we break our goals down into steps. After all, we know a thing or two about doing things in steps! Setting achievable goals and celebrating milestones along the way allows us to see our progress, and gives us moments when we can step back and evaluate where we are and where we are going.”*

*(Achievable, Action, Celebrate, Change, Dreams, Evaluate, Goals, God of my understanding, Living, Milestones, Program, Progress, Relationships, Steps, Studying, Where We Are and Where We Are Going, Writing, Working)*