---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Feb 13
title: Change
---
Change is difficult because of the unpredictability that comes with it. This unpredictability can bring up feelings of anxiety and fear. In some cases change can bring feelings of anger. Not all change is bad. In fact, many of the changes I experience end up being for the better. Still the process of change can be uncomfortable, even when the outcome is good. Change also brings me to a point where I often have to simply have faith that the God of my understanding will see me through. Faith is important that He will be there for me when I need Him. Faith that I will be given the strength, courage and wisdom that I need to deal with change is needed.

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Ten, More Will Be Revealed*** it tells us: *“Narcotics Anonymous offers only one promise and that is freedom from active addiction, the solution that eluded us for so long. We will be freed from our self-made prisons.*

*Living just for today, we have no way of knowing what will happen to us. We are often amazed at how things work out for us. We are recovering in the here and now and the future becomes an exciting journey. If we had written down our list of expectations when we came to the program, we would have been cheating ourselves. Hopeless living problems have become joyously changed. Our disease has been arrested, and now anything is possible.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 1: Living Clean*** it also tells us: *“We can measure our lives not in years or by the things we gain or lose, but by the degree to which we make peace with our own lives and the world around us. Spiritual growth is the real success. As our recovery unfolds, we find ourselves resolving feelings we never admitted we had. Open-mindedness gives us the ability to see more and more clearly within ourselves as we go through the never-ending process of surrendering, taking inventory, and inviting change.*

*The message we carry has three parts: Any addict can stop using, lose the desire to use, and find a new way to live. We talk a lot about the first two, because stopping is an emergency when we get here, and losing the obsession is necessary for us to enjoy our lives. But the hard work does not end there. Finding a new way to live is not something we do just once. Some of us experience great upheaval as we try again and again to find a life that makes sense for us. But we continue to carry the message, using our experience to help others. The more experience we have to share, the richer our message can become.”*

*(Anything Is Possible, Arrested, Carry the Message, Change, Courage, Experience, Faith, Feelings, Freedom, God of my understanding, Here and Now, Hope, Journey, Living Just For Today, One Promise, Open-mindedness, Peace, Process, Sharing, Spiritual Growth, Steps, S*trength, S*urrendering, Unpredictability, Wisdom)*