---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Feb 14
title: "Changing Your Outlook "
---
In the beginning, all I wanted to do was to stop the insanity of my using. I felt so helpless and hopeless; I didn’t see a way out. I had to find someone or something I could rely on, as I had plenty of evidence, I couldn’t trust myself. I found the answer in the voices of those who sat around the tables at meetings. I found that I could rely on a Power outside of myself.

Before long I didn’t just want to be clean, but I wanted to stay that way. Learning a new way of living was not easy, but the Narcotics Anonymous program provided some simple guidelines. I found that I could find happiness in the simple pleasures of life. I could laugh again. I could live through the difficulties and come out okay. I could give and receive love again.

Is my outlook changing?

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Four, How It Works, Step Eight*** it tells us: *“A Higher Power is working in our lives, preparing us to be of service to others. The changes brought about by that Power are evidenced by our changing attitudes and actions. We are developing the ability to choose spiritual principles over character defects and recovery over addiction. We have a fresh outlook on life, and we know that we are responsible for what we do. We no longer feel constant regret over the harm we caused in the past. Simply understanding how badly we’ve hurt people, being truly sorry for the pain we’ve caused, and becoming willing to let them know of our desire to make things right are the keys to freedom from our past. Though we have yet to make peace with others, we’ve come a long way toward making peace with ourselves. With our new perspective, our trust in the God of our understanding, and our willingness, we go on to Step Nine.”*

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Four, How It Works, Step Ten*** it also tells us: *“Healthier relationships are just one indication that the quality of our lives has improved dramatically. Such indications merely reflect the intangible but very real changes that have taken place inside us. Our entire outlook has changed. Compared to the spiritual values we hold dear today, concerns such as “looking good” or amassing material wealth pale in significance. By accepting the challenge of self-appraisal called for in the Tenth Step, we’ve discovered that we value our recovery and our relationship with the God of our understanding above all else.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 2: The Ties That Bind, Connection to the World Around Us*** it also tells us: *“For many of us, getting and staying clean is our greatest accomplishment, no matter what else we do in life. For others, it is the most beautiful gift we have been given. It is not always possible for us to share the thing for which we are most grateful with people outside recovery. That may feel like a little barrier between us and the world.*

*Some of us stay entirely within the sphere of recovery: All of our friends are in recovery, our whole world is tied up with the fellowship—not because we are afraid to venture out, but because we derive so much satisfaction from the rich interactions we have in NA. The way we share, this level of deep identification that makes NA feel so special to us—talking openly about feelings, finding humor in some of the darkest, most frightening things that have happened to us—is not always available outside the rooms.”*

*(Change, Feelings, God of my understanding, Grateful, Guidelines, Gift, Happiness, Learning, Love, Principles, Power outside of myself, Relationship, Sharing, Spirituality, Steps, Trust)*