---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Feb 15
title: Changing Your View
---
How I react to and treat others has changed dramatically over time. This was not so much up to me as it was up to His grace. Yes, I have done much of the footwork by working the steps, but the changes that occurred as a result of this really happened not because of what I had done, but because of the God of my understanding’s interventions. He has changed the way I think. He has changed the way I view life. He has changed the way I interact with others. He helps me to perceive the world in a new and different light. He helps me to think before I speak. He helps me to find new ways to solve old and difficult conflicts. His grace makes this happen in my life. I'm definitely not where I would like to be but I'm definitely not where I used to be.

In our ***Basic Text, Our Members Share, Coming Home, The Spirit of Service*** it tells us: *"My relationship with God improved. In the beginning I simply prayed and thanked God for being clean, and that was enough to give me a sense of serenity. Through working the steps I realized that as I kept changing and getting better, the world around me also kept changing for the better, and that God was with me on this path of transformation. I started to know myself and became familiar with my strengths and weaknesses. My relationships with people and my community kept improving. I found the ability to resolve my problems one by one. I experienced a new sense of peace and freedom by practicing the spiritual principles contained in the steps, and that helped me be more successful in my work. My faith helped me to recognize that my pain or defeats were possible lessons for future success."*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 7: The Journey Continues, Principles, Practice, and Perspective*** it also tells us: *“Everything changes—that’s good news and bad news. Growing through the changes doesn’t necessarily mean agreeing with them. But good-natured flexibility is a key to happy recovery. We try to have faith in the long view. It might be evolution or growing pains, but it’s not necessarily ours to figure out. We don’t have a crystal ball. An uncomfortable outcome is a phase in our development, not the end of our story. It’s true in our personal recovery, and it’s true in our fellowship as well. We grow and change, and our needs grow and change too. If we are involved in starting NA in a particular area, it can be very uncomfortable when that area settles into being a community. If we are involved in a particular kind of service for a long time, it can be difficult to allow others to step in and to accept that there is more than one way to do the job. When our identity gets wrapped up in how it used to be, we can’t reach out in the same way. It’s harder to ask for help because “they do it wrong,” and it’s hard to carry a message because our disappointment is so evident.”*

*(Acceptance, Carry a Message, Change, Faith, Flexibility, God of my understanding, Grace, Interventions, Peace and Freedom, Pray, Relationships, Resolve My Problems, Serenity, Service, Spiritual Principles, Steps, Strengths and Weaknesses, Think Before I Speak)*