---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Feb 16
title: Choices
---
The spiritual life is filled with choices. Do I believe, am I willing to trust, will I wait, and can I let go are just a few of the choices. Each day brings new spiritual choices. The sad thing is that most of us don’t take the time to see these choices. This refusal to see these choices paradoxically in and of itself is a choice. In every situation that I face and each day that I live, I have spiritual choices. Do I have to control this, or do I have to do this all by myself, or can I ask for help are a part of my days. I can choose to believe, and I can choose to look at life through spiritual eyes. Or I can walk blindly through my days.

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Four, How It Works, Step Three*** it tells us: *"As addicts, we turned our will and our lives over many times to a destructive power. Our will and our lives were controlled by drugs. We were trapped by our need for instant gratification that drugs gave us. During that time, our total being—body, mind and spirit—was dominated by drugs. For a time, it was pleasurable, then the euphoria began to wear off and we saw the ugly side of addiction. We found that the higher our drugs took us, the lower they brought us. We faced two choices: either we suffered the pain of withdrawal or took more drugs.*

*For all of us, the day came when there was no longer a choice; we had to use. Having given our will and lives to our addiction, in utter desperation, we looked for another way. In Narcotics Anonymous, we decide to turn our will and our lives over to the care of God as we understand Him. This is a giant step. We don’t have to be religious; anyone can take this step. All that is required is willingness. All that is essential is that we open the door to a Power greater than ourselves.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 6: A New Way of Life, Stability*** it also tells us: *“Many of us have gone through life by default, as if events simply happened to us. Our sense of ourselves was so distorted that we felt like we had no impact on the world. When we understand the First Step, we realize that “I’m powerless over everything” is a cop-out. We are powerless over our addiction, and we cannot turn back time. Beyond that, we may be amazed at the ability we have to make choices and shape our lives. Our relationship with the world is a aw. We are open to new ideas, new ways of thinking, and new ways of seeing what we think we know.”*

*(Believe, Choices, God as I understand Him, Let Go, Life Through Spiritual Eyes, Power Greater Than Ourselves, Open to New, Relationship, Shape Our Lives, Spirituality, Steps, Trust, Utter Desperation, Willingness)*