---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Feb 17
title: Clay Feet
---
Each of us in Narcotics Anonymous has our own set of “clay feet.” We all have our weaknesses and vulnerabilities. But the Basic Text clearly states, “The Second Step is necessary if we expect to achieve ongoing recovery. The First Step leaves me with a need to believe in something that can help me with my powerlessness, uselessness, and helplessness. The First Step has left a vacuum in my life. I need to find something to fill that void. This is the purpose of the Second Step.” The How and Why clearly states, "Because we are powerless over our addiction, we need a Power greater than ourselves to help us." I am indeed weak, but the God of my understanding is all powerful. All I need do is ask for the God of my understanding’s help, and that God will stand beside me in my times of struggle, sorrow, and failure. The God of my understanding will lead me beyond these times to a place of joy and victory. None of us needs to feel bad about our weaknesses. It is in our weakness that we are perhaps most open to the God of our understanding’s help and intervention. I learn from my weaknesses, just as I learn from my strengths. I learn that my Higher Power will strengthen my clay feet and help me to walk the path of recovery.

Do I put my trust in the One who has all power?

 ** *      Step One***

            “We admitted that we were powerless over our addiction, that our lives had become unmanageable.”

 ** *      Step Two***

            “We came to believe that a Power greater than ourselves could restore us to sanity.”

In our ***Basic Text, Our Members Share, Life on Life’s Terms, The Gratitude Side of Circumstance*** it tells us: *“Reviewing Steps One to Three every single day means that I go through the process of acknowledging how powerless I am, confirming my belief that a Higher Power is there to help me, and surrendering my self-will. This takes me to the place of gratitude and hope and helpfulness so that I can work on the remaining nine steps. That’s what I do each day and how I stay in recovery today. It’s the foundation of my program.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 1: Living Clean, Desperation to Passion*** it also tells us: *“Each time we surrender, we find once more that the desperation that drives us to our knees fuels the passion that carries us forward. When hope manifests into reality, our lives change. Our experience affirms what we believe, and belief grows into faith. When our faith grows into knowledge, the program that we once struggled to practice has become part of who we are. We find here what we were looking for all along: connection to others, connection to a Higher Power, connection to the world around us—and, most surprising of all, connection to ourselves.”*

*(Achiever Ongoing Recovery, Belief, Believe, Experience, Faith, Foundation, Gratitude, God of our understanding, Helpfulness, Higher Power, Hope, Joy, Passion, Program, Spirituality, Steps, Surrender, Victory, Weaknesses and Vulnerabilities)*