---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Feb 18
title: Cleaning House
---
Taking inventory is not a painless process and is something that I would prefer not to do. Nobody likes to clean up a mess, especially me. Still I know that this is what You want me to do. So I ask You Just For Today to remove any fear I may have. I ask You to help me to uncover all the secrets that keep me sick. Give me courage so that I might be responsible and clean every room, even the closets in my house.

Amen

In our ***IP #9, Living the Program*** it tells us: "The purpose of this daily inventory is to keep track of who we are and what we are doing today."

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Four, How It Works, Step Five*** it also tells us: *“Addicts tend to live secret lives. For many years, we covered low self-esteem by hiding behind phony images that we hoped would fool people. Unfortunately, we fooled ourselves more than anyone. Although we often appeared attractive and confident on the outside, we were really hiding a shaky, insecure person on the inside. The masks have to go. We share our inventory as it is written, skipping nothing. We continue to approach this step with honesty and thoroughness until we finish. It is a great relief to get rid of all our secrets and to share the burden of our past.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 6: A New Way of Life, Finding Our Place in the World*** it also tells us: *“The fewer secrets we have, the less we tend to be concerned about what others are saying or doing. It’s our secrets we are afraid of. We hide because we are ashamed. Telling the truth without embellishment or judgment limits drama. Our own willingness to meet the truth and deal with it takes a lot of the air out of the drama in our own minds—and on the gossip circuit. Ongoing step work takes the denial and deception out of our actions. As we learn compassion, we get less pleasure from magnifying the struggles of others.”*

*(Compassion, Daily Inventory, God of my understanding, Honesty, Just For Today, Learn, Masks Have To Go, Relief, Sharing, Skipping Nothing, Steps, Thoroughness, Truth, Who We Are and What We Are Doing, Willingness)*