---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Feb 19
title: Clear Vision
---
In recovery, my vision changed. It was not just because my brain came out of the fog; it was because I started to experience a spiritual vision. I could not physically see the God of my understanding, but I could see His actions in my life and in the lives of other addicts. I began to envision myself walking hand-in-hand with the God of my understanding on the road to recovery. As my spiritual consciousness improved, I began to see life more clearly.

In our ***IP #12, The Triangle of Self-Obsession*** tells us: *"We have a disease that, in the end, forces us to seek help. We are fortunate that we are given only one choice; one last chance. We must break the triangle of self-obsession; we must grow up or die."*

*The way we react to people, places, and things:*

*Negative \~ The Time \~ Positive*

*Resentment \~ Past \~ Acceptance*

*Anger \~ Present \~ Love*

*Fear \~ Future \~ Faith*

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Four, How It Works, Step Twelve*** it also tells us: *“Yes, we are a vision of hope. We are examples of the program working. The joy that we have in living clean is an attraction to the addict who still suffers.*

*We do recover to live clean and happy lives. Welcome to NA. The steps do not end here. The steps are a new beginning!”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Preface*** it also tells us: *“We are called to tell our story in NA not just once, but over and over. We cannot see the entirety of ourselves in one Fifth Step or one share, and we can’t see the entirety of our recovery all at once, either. We see it in layers, and our vision of ourselves changes each time we have a shift in perspective or a change in perception. Telling the truth about our lives is one of the most powerful things we can ever do. We start to see the threads that run through our experience, even though we may feel like we have been many different people over the course of our lives. We can see the patterns that help us or hold us back, and we can find hope even at times when our lives are very difficult.”*

*(Acceptance, Changes, Choice, Experience, Faith, God of my understanding, Hope, Living Clean, Love, New Beginning, Patterns, Perception, Perspective, Positive, Seek Help, Spirituality, Steps, Tell Our Story, Truth, Vision, We Do Recover)*