---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Feb 20
title: Coming Home
---
I remember when I was a little boy, and my parents would leave to go out. Even though I was well cared for by whoever was watching after me, I would watch and wait for my parents to come home. When I would see the car drive up or hear the door open and see they were back, I would feel a real sense of relief. As I got older, the roles would reverse. My grandparents, who were raising me after my parents got divorced, would wait up for me and breathe a sigh of relief when I came home safe. Now I sometimes imagine that this is very much what the God of my understanding must have been through with me. He sat waiting and waiting, always watching for me to return. He would pray earnestly on my behalf that someday I would come back to Him. I imagine what a joyous celebration He must have had when I finally returned home. Just For Today I celebrate also, because I know that in Narcotics Anonymous, I am home. In Narcotics Anonymous I live with Him in my life every day. Nothing could be better than being home.

Have I found a home in the Narcotics Anonymous?

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Nine, Just For Today—Living the Program*** it tells us: *"Sharing in regularly scheduled meetings and one-on-one with recovering addicts helps us stay clean. Attending meetings reminds us of what it is like to be new and of the progressive nature of our disease. Attending our home group provides encouragement from the people that we get to know. This sustains our recovery and helps us in our daily living. When we honestly tell our own story, someone else may identify with us. Serving the needs of our members and making our message available gives us a feeling of joy. Service gives us opportunities to grow in ways that touch all parts of our lives. Our experience in recovery may help them deal with their problems, what worked for us might work for them. Most addicts are able to accept this type of sharing, even from the very beginning. The get-togethers after our meetings are good opportunities to share things that we didn’t get to discuss during the meeting. This is also a good time to talk one-on-one with our sponsors. Things we need to hear will surface and become clear to us."*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 6: A New Way of Life, Moving Beyond “Social Acceptability*** it also tells us: *“Many of us ask ourselves to what society we want to be acceptable. Some of us understand “society” to be NA itself. We find a way to make ourselves at home in NA, even if we have always been loners, skeptics, and outsiders. When we think about finding our place in the world, though, we may confront additional challenges. If we got our identity from being outsiders, the idea of joining anything can seem a little fishy. Coming back to society is a difficult step, and there may be risk involved. No one can make that decision for us. “I always felt like an outsider when I was growing up. I found acceptance in drug culture,” a member shared. That feeling of belonging can be a powerful draw for us; the lifestyle is sometimes harder to let go of than the drugs.*

*When we take a look at what compels us to put so much emphasis on things outside ourselves, we often find that what is driving us is fear. We are afraid of ourselves, afraid of the world, and afraid someone will find out how afraid we are. We hide behind all sorts of screens, from rigid social conformity to outright hostility. For people who have been through so much, we can be extraordinarily sensitive. We mistakenly believe that social acceptability can give us immunity from the pain that seems to come with caring about what other people think.”*

*(Acceptance, Belonging, Experience, God of my understanding, Home, Just For Today, Let Go, Living the Program, Meetings, Opportunities to Grow, Our Message, Service, Sharing, Society, Spirituality, Sponsors)*