---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Feb 21
title: Common Sense
---
I behaved in foolish ways and did not possess the wisdom I needed. So, I began to study and do research. I studied the Narcotics Anonymous program literature. I listened intently to others at meetings. They were the winners, and they had wisdom I did not have. I spent long hours doing “homework” for my sponsor. Little by little I began to pick up bits and pieces of wisdom that I could trust. Just For Today I am not so “stupid” anymore, but I am wise enough to know that I can get that way again if I quit studying and researching what I need to do in ongoing recovery.

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter One, Who Is an Addict?*** it tells us: *"These experiences indicated that there was something wrong with our lives. We wanted an easy way out. Some of us thought of suicide. Our attempts were usually feeble and only helped to contribute to our feelings of worthlessness. We were trapped in the illusion of “what if,” “if only” and “just one more time.” When we did seek help, we were only looking for the absence of pain.*

*We had regained good physical health many times, only to lose it by using again. Our track record shows that it is impossible for us to use successfully. No matter how well we may appear to be in control, using drugs always brings us to our knees.*

*Like other incurable diseases, addiction can be arrested. We agree that there is nothing shameful about being an addict, provided we accept our dilemma honestly and take positive action. We are willing to admit without reservation that we are allergic to drugs. Common sense tells us that it would be insane to go back to the source of our allergy. Our experience indicates that medicine cannot cure our illness.*

*Although physical and mental tolerance play a role, many drugs require no extended period of use to trigger allergic reactions. Our reaction to drugs is what makes us addicts, not how much we use."*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 1: Living Clean, A Vision of Hope*** it also tells us: *“The person we see in the mirror may bear little resemblance to the version of ourselves that other people know. When we are locked in self-obsession, we may have no idea of the damage we are doing to the people around us, or even to ourselves. Similarly, when we reach out, we may not see the positive effects we have on our own spirits or the world around us. We may still see ourselves as we were when we got here, not recognizing that the principles we have been practicing have become part of who we are. We trust our sponsors and friends to show us the changes we cannot see in ourselves.”*

*(Admit, Arrested, Common Sense, Experiences, Honesty, Just For Today, Positive Action, Positive Effects, Practicing, Principles, Researching, Seek Help, Sponsorship, Steps, Studying, Tolerance, Trust, Winners, Wisdom)*