---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Feb 22
title: "Developing Common Sense "
---
Somewhere along the way, I started to develop common sense. This was not something I had when I was actively using drugs. But in recovery I began to learn that if I used drugs, it ended in trouble. More importantly, common sense told me that if I could no longer use drugs, then the only alternative was getting clean. It was not a matter of stop shooting up coke and only drinking beer. I simply had to stop everything. I was addicted to changing my reality in ways that destroyed me. I had to be open to doing things differently. I had to be willing to change.

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter One, Who Is an Addict?*** it tells us: *"Like other incurable diseases, addiction can be arrested. We agree that there is nothing shameful about being an addict, provided we accept our dilemma honestly and take positive action. We are willing to admit without reservation that we are allergic to drugs. Common sense tells us that it would be insane to go back to the source of our allergy. Our experience indicates that medicine cannot cure our illness.*

*Although physical and mental tolerance play a role, many drugs require no extended period of use to trigger allergic reactions. Our reaction to drugs is what makes us addicts, not how much we use."*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 7: The Journey Continues, Living Our Principles*** it also tells us: *“We may still get depressed or frightened or angry, but our feelings don’t have to take possession of us anymore. When we realize we’ve survived every emotion we ever had, we start to believe that we are going to be alright even when we don’t feel alright. Our best lessons often come by looking back at our own bad behavior. Our regret helps us to find compassion for others and a sense of possibility for our new way of life. Getting some perspective means that we can put a little distance between our thoughts, our feelings, and our actions. Our feelings won’t kill us but denying them might. It’s usually when we’re trying to avoid a feeling that we act out, creating damage and confusion to divert attention. Admitting our feelings, even when we’re judging ourselves for having them, is one way we practice honesty.”*

*(Acceptance, Admitting, Change, Common Sense, Compassion, Experience, Feelings, Honesty, Learn, Our Regret Helps Us, Positive Action, Possibility For Our New Way of Life, Perspective, Reaction to Drugs, Steps, Tolerance)*