---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Feb 23
title: "Compassion and Patience "
---
Learning to have compassion is important for an addict who wants to carry the message to others. I needed a compassionate response from others when I first walked through the doors of Narcotics Anonymous. What is compassion? Well, it means that a person is both sympathetic and patient. It was easy for me to be sympathetic to others new to the Narcotics Anonymous Fellowship. Their story was just like mine. Yes, the events that had happened in their lives were different than the events in mine, but the struggle with addiction was the same. It was the patience that I really struggled with. Yet I knew that finding this patience with the newcomer was exactly what they needed, just as I had needed it when I walked through the door.

In our ***IP #11 Sponsorship, Revised*** it also tells us: *“My relationship with my sponsor has been the key to gaining trust in other people and working the steps. I shared the total mess that was my life with my sponsor, and he shared that he had been in the same place. He began to teach me how to live without the use of drugs.”*

In our ***Basic Text, Our Members Share, Coming Home, Sandwich*** it also tells us: *“When I told my father I was an addict, he told me that his father had died from addiction. My grandfather was apparently not the bohemian from the family stories. He was an addict. As a young boy my father had to go to the pub to beg him for money for the household. That man died from alcohol after he left his wife and kids in poverty. Out of shame, my father had never told that to anyone. Learning his secret gave me more compassion for my father—and more compassion for myself. I have a disease that has occurred in my family several times. I did not choose to be addicted. I am unable to take the disease away. And other people, whether or not they are addicts, have their stories. Beginning to see how powerless I am and getting more understanding for the powerlessness of others allowed me to breathe again and has given me the space to find more good in myself and others.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 1: Living Clean, Growing Pains*** it also tells us: *“When we are in crisis we may try all kinds of escapes and excuses before we resort to the steps. We can be intolerant, angry, defensive, vengeful, guilty, and resentful, testing the patience and tolerance of those around us. The only way out is through. We must roll up our sleeves and get to work. These struggles often push us into to the next phase in our recovery. We can come out stronger and healthier people for the experience, if we are willing to do the work.*

*Early in recovery we were told that if we kept coming to meetings, sooner or later we would hear our story. It would be a mistake to think that our using story is the only one we need to listen for. Our recovery story is no less dramatic, and there are times when we need just as much to go to meetings and listen for that. We hear it when we learn to listen with our heart as well as our ears. Sometimes we have to go looking for it, seeking new meetings, asking around, and sharing about what’s going on. We find people who have been through what we’re going through and got through it clean. We need other people to walk us through hard times, and we need to reach out and help others as we heal.*

*There is hope. When we listen to others share their pain and how they get through it, we get a broader view. We see new tools in action, and we can learn to use their experience to go forward in our own lives. When we change our attitude or perspective, we can find a new sense of compassion and gratitude. Perhaps the most valuable lesson of all is empathy. However, empathy isn’t a treatment plan; it’s a way of life. When we can relate with one another and see each other’s growth, we begin to believe in the possibility of our own recovery. Listening to other addicts share without judging them is the beginning of listening to our own heart without judgment or punishment. When we have compassion for ourselves, we give ourselves permission to be in the world, and that makes us much more useful to the world.”*

Someone once asked his sponsor, ‘Why do I need a sponsor?’ The sponsor replied, ‘Well it’s pretty hard to spot self-deception... by yourself.’”

*(Believe, Chance, Compassion and Gratitude, Empathetic, Hope, Kept Coming, Learn to Listen with Our Heart, Listening to Others, Patience, Powerless, Relationship, Self-Deception, Sponsorship, Steps, Stronger and Healthier, Sympathetic, Tolerance)*