---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Feb 24
title: Continued Growth
---
Sometimes the road to recovery seems long and hard. I need to rest along the way. The problem is that I have a hard time getting back up to continue my journey. I remember hearing someone say at a meeting one time, “I don't know if I can walk through one more growth experience!” I know just how that person was feeling. Particularly in dealing with character defects, the road seems long. I still think like an addict sometimes and want immediate gratification. Yet I know the easier, quicker way does not provide lasting results. I know I have to get back up and continue on the path that my God of my understanding sets before me.

In our ***IP #5 Another Look*** it tells us:

*“2. Addiction is not personal growth.*

*The monotonous, imitative, ritualistic, compulsive, and obsessive routines of active addiction render us incapable of responsive or meaningful thought and action. Personal growth is creative effort and purposeful behavior; it presupposes choice, change, and the capacity to face life on its own terms.”*

In our ***Basic Text, Our Members Share, Regardless of ..., Academic Addict*** it also tells us: *“You can have anything you want, so long as you’re willing to pay for it.” This is an NA “chestnut” we often hear in the rooms. For me, this is not only about what I might want, but also about what I have already received. My sponsor told me that every day I have clean is a debt owed to NA, so I am willing to pay for the recovery I have today. The price of my continued growth in recovery is offering the same gift to others. When I didn’t have the experience to know about this path, others, both addicts and nonaddicts, helped me find the way. They were doing my Higher Power’s work, and now it is my turn to do the same by participating in the recovery of others. When I think about things this way, it is clear to me why fellowship is the foundation of recovery.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 7: The Journey Continues, Love*** it also tells us: *“The more progress we recognize in ourselves and our fellows, the more we know is possible. What first appeared to us as a way out now offers us a way in—into a life we hadn’t imagined, into joy, into hope, into growth that never stops. We continue to get better. We continue to discover new ways to live, new freedom, and new paths to explore. We travel together as one in fellowship, and we pave the road as we walk it for all who may follow. No matter how far we have come, or how far we know we have to go, when we live clean, the journey continues.”*

*(Change, Choice, Creative Effort, Experience, Fellowship, Freedom, God of my understanding, Growth, Hope, Journey not a Destination, Joy, Life On Its Own Terms, Participating, Purposeful Behavior, Steps)*