---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Feb 25
title: Courage and Wisdom
---
God of my understanding,

Sometimes I feel like my heart is all messed up. There are so many different messages I get because of my unhealthy desires. Help me this day to seek after that which I know to be healthy and give to me the courage I need along the way. Let me be watchful for the traps of the heart that can lead me backwards. Guide my steps with wisdom.

Amen

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Nine, Just For Today—Living the Program*** it tells us: *"Our Higher Power is accessible to us at all times. We receive guidance when we ask for knowledge of God’s will for us. Gradually, as we become more God-centered than self-centered, our despair turns to hope. Change also involves the great source of fear, the unknown. Our Higher Power is the source of courage that we need to face this fear.*

*Some things we must accept, others we can change. The wisdom to know the difference comes with growth in our spiritual program. If we maintain our spiritual condition daily, we find it easier to deal with the pain and confusion. This is the emotional stability that we so badly need. With the help of our Higher Power, we never have to use again.*

*Any clean addict is a miracle. We keep this miracle alive in ongoing recovery with positive attitudes. If, after a period of time, we find ourselves in trouble with our recovery, we have probably stopped doing one or more of the things that helped us in the earlier stages of our recovery."*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 6: A New Way of Life, Work*** it also tells us: *“One way we practice these principles is to be of service to our employer. Some members have asked themselves: “How do I practice unity at work? How do I let my HP be in charge during my workday? What is the primary purpose of this workplace, and how can I help achieve that? What is my primary purpose here?” Whatever our job is, when we can see it as an opportunity to practice our principles it becomes a worthy use of our time. A member shared: “Responsibility used to feel like a burden to me. Learning to see it as a way to do my Higher Power’s will made it feel like a privilege.” With spiritual principles as our guide, we can be an asset wherever we are. Often the people around us see our value before we do. Perhaps most of all, when we are spiritually connected, creativity flows through us. This doesn’t necessarily mean that we paint or make music (though it can), but that we can see solutions to problems and find satisfaction in doing whatever we do as best we can.”*

*(Assets, Change, Courage, Emotional Stability, God Centered, God’s will, Higher Power, Hope, Miracle, Positive Attitudes, Responsibility, Spiritual Principles, Wisdom)*