---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Feb 26
title: Courage to Follow
---
God of my understanding,

Help me stay on the narrow path. Guide me and direct me to the next right thing. Help me to be open to Your will for me and give me the strength and courage to follow where You lead me.

Amen

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Four, How It Works*** it tells us: *“When we were using, reality became so painful that oblivion was preferable. We tried to keep other people from knowing about our pain. We isolated ourselves, and lived in prisons that we built with loneliness. Through this desperation, we sought help in Narcotics Anonymous. When we come to NA we are physically, mentally, and spiritually bankrupt. We have hurt so long that we are willing to go to any length to stay clean.*

*Our only hope is to live by the example of those who have faced our dilemma and have found a way out. Regardless of who we are, where we came from, or what we have done, we are accepted in NA. Our addiction gives us a common ground for understanding one another.*

*As a result of attending a few meetings, we begin to feel like we finally belong somewhere. It is in these meetings that we are introduced to the Twelve Steps of Narcotics Anonymous. We learn to work the steps in the order that they are written and to use them on a daily basis. The steps are our solution. They are our survival kit. They are our defense against addiction which is a deadly disease. Our steps are the principles that make our recovery possible.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 3: A Spiritual Path, Creative Action of the Spirit*** it also tells us: *“The spiritual foundation we find in NA gives us the confidence to live and enjoy life, to help others, and to carry the NA message secure in the knowledge that we are guided to exactly where we need to be. We begin to feel connected to the world around us, and our lives have purpose. We find the courage to follow our heart, to listen to the voice within, to create, to commit, to explore, and to live.*

*We arrive at Narcotics Anonymous hoping for survival. What we find is love, courage, a sense of connection, and a sense of direction. All our lives we had looked for the peace and safety we experience in recovery. As we seek our Higher Power’s will for us, we come to an understanding of our purpose. Spiritual awakening is a process. Maybe it is what the whole process is about. We nurture our awakening spirits and know that we are finally free to live in grace, integrity, and dignity.”*

**KEEP COMING BACK—IT WORKS!**

*(Belong Somewhere, Commitment, Common Ground, Confidence, Courage, Dignity, Enjoy Life, Experience, God of my understanding, Grace, Guide, Help, Hope, Integrity, Love, Meetings, Principles, Process, Purpose, Spiritual Awakening, Steps, Strength, Survival Kit, Willingness)*