---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Feb 27
title: Daily Progress
---
My future is in the hands of the God of my understanding. I still need to do the footwork if I am to find a way out of the mess addiction created in my life. I must take responsibility for my recovery and seek wisdom from others in the decisions I face. One thing I have learned is that Just For Today can be about progress.

Sometimes it is not always easy to see. One day I woke up, and many of the problems I had were gone. This did not mean I had no problems, just better ones. And the problems that weren’t better, I could handle more constructively.

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Four, How It Works, Step Eleven*** it tells us: *"We become willing to let other people be who they are without having to pass judgment on them. The urgency to take care of things isn’t there anymore. We couldn’t comprehend acceptance in the beginning; today we can.*

*We know that whatever the day brings, God has given us everything we need for our spiritual well-being. It is all right for us to admit powerlessness, because God is powerful enough to help us stay clean and to enjoy spiritual progress. God is helping us to get our house in order.*

*We begin to see more clearly what is real. Through constant contact with our Higher Power, the answers that we seek come to us. We gain the ability to do what we once could not. We respect the beliefs of others. We encourage you to seek strength and guidance according to your belief."*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 3: A Spiritual Path, Creative Action of the Spirit*** it also tells us: *“We put this way of life into practice with our families, people we work with, and all of our other relationships. We do the best we can each day. Sometimes we improve just a little bit; at other times we make big progress in practicing the principles, or we really fall short. Our progress is not always steady, but we can see it happening over time. We learn to live our principles. We begin to say no when something isn’t right for us, even if we might lose someone’s approval in the process. We learn to take care of ourselves and our responsibilities, and not to blame others when things don’t go our way. We start to see the opportunities for growth that are available to us on our best and worst days.”*

*(Acceptance, Belief, Constructively, God of my understanding, Growth, Guidance, Just For Today, Practice, Principles, Progress, Respect, Responsibility, Strength, Willingness, Wisdom)*