---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Feb 28
title: Delusions Must be Smashed
---
I was grateful to get the chance at a normal life again, but to my surprise what I have is a chance at a truly abundant life. Narcotics Anonymous has bought me so much, and it can bring me even more if I continue on the right path. Life in recovery can be spiritually, mentally, physically and emotionally rewarding. Life can be filled with joy. Life can be exciting. All we need to do is accept the gift of abundance in our lives from the God of our understanding. It is free for all who wish to claim it. This was hard for me at first, because I somehow felt that I did not deserve it. These gifts do not always come in the way that we would expect. Often times they come in quite simple packages and are simple gifts, but their value is priceless.

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Nine, Just For Today—Living the Program*** it tells us: *"We develop self-esteem as we help others find a new way of life. When we honestly evaluate what we have, we can learn to appreciate it. We begin to feel worthwhile by being members of NA. We can carry the gifts of recovery with us everywhere. The Twelve Steps of Narcotics Anonymous are a progressive recovery process established in our daily living. Ongoing recovery is dependent on our relationship with a loving God who cares for us and will do for us what we find impossible to do for ourselves.*

*During our recovery, each of us comes to our own understanding of the program. If we have difficulties, we trust our groups, our sponsors, and our Higher Power to guide us. Thus, recovery, as found in Narcotics Anonymous, comes both from within and without.*

*We live a day at a time but also from moment to moment. When we stop living in the here and now, our problems become magnified unreasonably. Patience isn’t a strong point with us. That’s why we need our slogans and our NA friends to remind us to live the program just for today."*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 6: A New Way of Life, Finding Our Place in the World*** it also tells us: *“When we work hard and earn a victory, we certainly can be proud of ourselves. However, there is a big difference between feeling good about ourselves and believing our own hype. We are in trouble when we start mistaking outside success for recovery. When we allow our humility and integrity to decay, we are a danger to ourselves and everyone around us. If we confuse our priorities, we can lose more than we thought we had at stake. And when we try to fill up the empty places inside us with material things or lofty positions, we find that we are emptier than before. When our gratitude is gone, we forget where we came from and no longer relate to the newcomer. We are so lost in delusion that we don’t even know there is a problem. Many members have died as a result of such arrogance. Net worth does not equal self-worth. We have all seen members achieve great success and still use or want to destroy themselves.*

*Perhaps because we have been so far outside society, we tend to be very conscious of how it works. Addicts seem to have a nose for deceit. We have no time for people playing fast and loose with the truth, even if we struggle to consistently practice honesty ourselves. It’s our own struggle with honesty that makes the principle so important to us. We know how easy it is to let go of our integrity in favor of short-term gain, even when we know the consequences. We are acutely insightful about relationships between people and about the flow of money and power, and we know how to position ourselves to get what we want. So, it’s no surprise that so many of us get caught up in chasing status, either inside or outside the fellowship.”*

*(Appreciation, Chance, Emotionally, Gifts, God of my understanding, Gratitude, Honesty, Humility, Just For Today, Mentally, Physically, Priceless, Relationship, Self-esteem, Spiritually, Victory)*