---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Jan 01
title: A Change in Thinking
---
Living in a dead-end life happened because I refused to be honest with others and myself. I always had to be on the run to avoid the truth of my addiction. I didn't want to admit that I was out of control. I didn't want to give up my anger and resentments. I didn't want to give up my selfishness. I didn't want to give up my way of thinking.

All this led me to a place where my using was truly threatening my life and all that I valued. If I was ever going to find a way out of the insanity, I had to change my thinking. I had to give up and surrender. I had to admit I was and always will be an addict, but Just For Today I'm a recovering addict.

Have I changed my thinking?

In our ***IT WORKS HOW AND WHY, BOOK ONE: The Twelve Steps, Step Four*** it tells us: *“For many of us, our motivation to work the Fourth Step is quite simple: working a program of recovery and we want to continue. Because our disease involves much more than our drug use, recovery involves more than simple abstinence from drugs. The solution to our problem is a profound change in our thinking and our behavior. We need to change how we perceive the world and alter our role in it. We need to change our attitude. Whether our motivation is a desire to move away from our addiction or to move toward recovery doesn’t really matter.*

*The Fourth Step is a turning point in our journey of recovery. It is a time for deep personal reflection. The confusion that we attempted to mask with self-deception and drugs is about to diminish. We are embarking on a search for insight into ourselves, our feelings, our fears, our resentments, and the patterns of behavior that make up our lives.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 1: Living Clean, Why We Stay*** it also tells us: *“There is no limit to the process. There are no limits to where our recovery can take us, no limits to how much better we can get. We short-circuit our recovery when we keep a reservation in our Second Step by thinking that there are some parts of who we are that cannot be restored. When we accept the possibility that we can get infinitely better—that there is no end to what recovery has to offer—we begin to understand that spirituality is not just a way out. It is a way of life that will continue to bring us new gifts, new possibilities, and new awareness as long as we practice it. If we allow ourselves to be motivated not by fear of the past but by hope for the future, we are as excited to move forward when life is good as we are when we are struggling”*

*(Awareness, Change Our Attitude, Honesty, Hope, Just For Today, No Limits, Patterns, Profound Change in Our thinking and Our Behavior, Possibilities, Resentments, Reservation, Spirituality Is a Way of life, Steps, Surrender, Truth)*

Happy New Years!