---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Jan 02
title: A Clay Pot
---
I was a clay pot that had been dropped and shattered into a million pieces. One after another the pieces have been glued back together again. As time passed, the Narcotics Anonymous program has taught me how to live with inner peace. I am content with where I am in life. Even though I am far from putting all the pieces back together again, with the help of the Narcotics Anonymous program this once broken vessel is now useful again.

The Narcotics Anonymous program has provided me with a place of rest – a quiet place for my heart and mind to concentrate on the best way to fit the broken pieces of my life back together again. It has been glued in place with the steps and faith in the God of my understanding. What has been surprising is that the God of my understanding has instructed me to put these broken pieces back together again in a way that I would not have expected. Slowly this new vessel has become a container for inner peace. Even in the midst of insanity going on all around me, I can still carry this inner peace.

Do I carry peace inside of me in every situation?

In our ***Basic Text, Our Members Share, Life on Life’s Terms, Mosaic*** it tells us: *“My recovery is not just a series of senseless coincidences. Whether I am engaged in service on a committee, or practicing the Twelfth Step, or simply living the program, I find values inside myself which would be impossible to replace with something external. My life is a mosaic, and Narcotics Anonymous is the structure and foundation of that mosaic. Each time I look at my life I see more pieces being added to that mosaic, and a bigger picture becomes visible—as well as the greatness of the one who has made beauty from broken pieces: the God of my understanding.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 4: Our Physical Selves*** it also tells us: *“Each of us has different ways of seeing ourselves. We are physical beings, and we are also spiritual. We are spiritual beings, and we are also emotional. As addicts, we are prone to alienation—the feeling of being apart from—and sometimes we even feel apart from ourselves, as if all these pieces of who we are don’t add up to one whole person. When we focus on what is real, we can begin to accept ourselves with all our contradictions. All these pieces of ourselves come together like a kaleidoscope, beautiful and colorful and always changing. We let go of the idea that the pieces need to line up perfectly for us to be okay. We can see amazing harmony in our lives just by being aware of what’s happening inside ourselves—physically, emotionally, and spiritually.”*

*(Acceptance, Bigger Picture Becomes Visible, Emotionally, Faith, Foundation, God of my understanding, Harmony, Inner Peace, Living the Program, Piece, Physically, Serenity, Service, Spiritually, Useful Again, Values, What Is Real)*