---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Jan 03
title: A Day of Hope
---
God of my understanding, 

Each day I open my eyes to see new hope in my life. You provide for me what I need for each and every day. This hope wraps around me and comforts me in the hard or difficult times. It causes me to celebrate in the small gains I make along the way. It provides me with new perspective and brings me new life. For that I thank You. Send Your Spirit into my heart that He may carry my words to You this day. Keep me always in the palm of Your hand. 

Amen 

H-O-P-E = Hearing Other Peoples Experience 

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Nine, Just For Today—Living the Program*** it tells us: *“From the isolation of our addiction, we find a fellowship of people with a common bond of recovery. NA is like a lifeboat in a sea of isolation, hopelessness and destructive chaos. Our faith, strength and hope come from people sharing their recovery and from our relationship with the God of our own understanding. At first it feels awkward to share feelings. Part of the pain of addiction is being cut off from this sharing experience. If we find ourselves in a bad place or we sense trouble coming, we call someone or go to a meeting. We learn to seek help before making difficult decisions. By humbling ourselves and asking for help, we can get through the toughest of times. I can’t, we can! In this way we find the strength that we need. We form a mutual bond, as we share our spiritual and mental resources.”* 

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 3: A Spiritual Path, Creative Action of the Spirit*** it also tells us: *“We begin to sort ourselves out with the steps as an ongoing part of our lives. Sharing ourselves, whether we are telling our story or reading our inventory, helps us bring order to the chaos. We experience deeper spiritual growth each time we embrace a step. Over and over we surrender, let go, and trust the process; each time another door opens inside us. The gnawing hunger we felt inside is filled as we practice prayer, meditation, and service. As our defects release the chokehold they once had on us, we are freed to live fully. The narrow choices that once defined us give way and we begin to dream, imagine, create, solve problems, or just seek joy in life itself. Our NA program provides a solid foundation. We can use that foundation to achieve anything, as long as it is centered in spiritual principles. We learn to trust the principles of NA to guide us in all our affairs.”* 

*(Celebrate, Faith, Fellowship, Foundation, God of my understanding, Hope, humility, In All Our Affairs, Joy, Meditation, New Life, New Perspective, Prayer, Principles, Service, Sharing Ourselves, Steps, Strength, Surrender)*