---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Jan 04
title: A Gradual Process
---
This faith and trust that comes from honestly working the steps and using the principles is built Just For Today. I used to think that if I did the steps just right, I would have this profound experience, the light would come on, and I would be filled with the inner peace I sought. This may happen for some, but for most of us the process is more gradual. Based on one experience after another in the Narcotics Anonymous program and making it through one struggle after another, trust is built up. Assurance that the Narcotics Anonymous program works if you work it grows. Faith that the light in my life will grow brighter and brighter is attained as one gift after another is accepted from the God of my understanding. Sharing my experience reinforces my faith and trust. Inner confidence is gained, not in myself, but in the Narcotics Anonymous program, the fellowship and the God of my understanding. 

Do I see my faith and trust grow each day that I remain clean? 

Recovery is a process and not a single event. What I have discovered is that recovery is more like opening doors and finding pieces to a puzzle. 

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Four, How It Works, Step Twelve*** it tells us: *“The first way that we carry the message speaks for itself. People see us on the street and remember us as devious, frightened loners. They notice the fear leaving our faces. They see us gradually come alive.”* 

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 3: A Spiritual Path, A Spiritual, Not Religious Program*** it also tells us: *“When we get tangled up in our differences and reservations, it’s easy to forget why we bother with spirituality in NA. The Basic Text reminds us simply, that “We ease the pain of living through spiritual principles.” Addicts feel life so acutely, and it’s often this pain that drives us to use even when we know it won’t actually make it better. We have been willing to trade even a moment’s relief for a lifetime of hardship. Surviving our own lives seems impossible when we get here, but we learn, gradually, to face reality and make friends with the truth. The spiritual principles we practice help to take the edge off that pain, and the more we practice, the more we find that those principles are the keys to freedom. Our lives get easier as we “get clean” in all our affairs. As we practice honesty, “integrity, and fidelity, we no longer have to keep track of our stories or cover our tracks. We may be surprised to find that it is actually easier to live this way. We can love our lives, find joy in being alive, and face the world with genuine excitement.”* 

*(Carry the Message, C*onfidence, *Experience, Face the World, Faith, Fidelity, Freedom, Genuine Excitement, Get Clean, God of my understanding, Honestly Working the Steps, In All Our Affairs, Integrity, Just For Today, Practice, Principles, Recovery Is a Process, Sharing My Experience, Spirituality, Trust is Built, Truth)*