---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Jan 05
title: A Higher Power
---
“Throw me a rope, my Higher Power. Get me out of this hole, and I promise I will be different.” This kind of prayer never worked for me, because I always wanted a different kind of rope. In recovery I have learned that there are two ends to that rope. On one end is my willingness and faith to grab onto the rope and hold on for dear life. On the other end of the rope is my Higher Power’s power. It is only when I learn to trust that my Higher Power indeed has the power to help me and wants to help me that rescue seems possible.

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Nine, Just For Today—Living the Program*** it tells us: *“Honesty, open-mindedness, and willingness work hand in hand. The lack of one of these principles in our personal program can lead to relapse, and will certainly make recovery difficult and painful when it could be simple. This program is a vital part of our everyday living. If it were not for this program, most of us would be dead or institutionalized. Our viewpoint changes from that of a loner to that of a member. We emphasize setting our house in order, because it brings us relief. We trust in our Higher Power for the strength to meet our needs.*

*One way to practice the principles of HOW is by taking a daily inventory. Our inventory allows us to recognize our daily growth. We shouldn’t forget about our assets while striving to eliminate our defects. The old self-deception and self-centeredness can be replaced with spiritual principles.*

*Staying clean is the first step in facing life. When we practice acceptance, our lives are simplified. When problems arise, we hope to be well-equipped with the tools of the program. We honestly have to surrender our own self-centeredness and self-destructiveness. In the past, we believed desperation would give us the strength to survive. Now we accept responsibility for our problems and see that we’re equally responsible for our solutions.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 1: Living Clean, Desperation to Passion*** it also tells us: *“Faith in the process means believing that we are moving in the right direction, even if it’s not where we thought we would be going. We take on greater challenges, we stand for principles we never had before, we tend to our responsibilities even when they seem too heavy to bear. We learn that our Higher Power will help us do what we cannot—but will not do for us what we can do for ourselves. It is surprising to find how much we actually can handle. When we stop trying to control things we are powerless over, we learn where our power truly lies, and how we can use that to make changes in ourselves and our world.”*

*(Acceptance, Daily Inventory, Faith, Higher Power, Honesty, Make Changes, Member, Open-mindedness, Our Personal Program, Prayer, Principles of HOW, Relief, Responsibilities, Spiritual Principles, Staying Clean, Strength to Survive, Surrender, Willingness)*