---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Jan 06
title: A Knock at the Door
---
I used to be very paranoid about someone knocking on my door. I was never sure if it was the police, a debt collector or someone that I had harmed in my addiction. Recovery has changed all that, and I no longer have to live in fear. However, this does not mean that no one knocks on my door anymore. I have many friends who now knock on my door, but more important is the fact that this is the knock that occurs on my spiritual door. I could not hear this knock when I was active in my addiction, but I am now convinced it was there. Each and every day the God of my understanding knocks on this door; all I need do is answer this door. He is constantly seeking me out; and when I open the door to the God of my understanding, He greets me and invites me to follow Him. All I need do is listen for His knock and open the door to Him spiritually and my life is changed.

Am I willing to listen for the knock on my spiritual door each day?

Am I willing to follow where He will lead me?

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Two, What Is the Narcotics Anonymous Program?*** it tells us: *“We meet addicts like ourselves who are clean. We watch, listen and realize that they have found a way to live and enjoy life without drugs. We don’t have to settle for the limitations of the past. We can examine and re-examine our old ideas. We can constantly improve our old ideas or replace them with new ones. We are men and women who have discovered and admitted that we are powerless over our addiction. When we use, we lose.*

*When we discovered that we could not live with or without drugs, we sought help through NA, rather than prolong our suffering. The program works a miracle in our lives. We become different people. Working the steps and maintaining abstinence give us a daily reprieve from our self-imposed life sentences. We become free to live.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 3: A Spiritual Path, A Spiritual, Not Religious Program*** it also tells us: *“One of the most beautiful things about our program is that it works regardless of our different beliefs. NA needs to be a place where we all feel welcomed. Even when we’re pretty sure everyone in the room shares the same faith, we still need to make sure that the NA message is clear. We don’t limit our application of the traditions to those times when we can see a problem they seem to solve. Keeping our message clear helps us all. “The more I learn to share my spirituality in NA language, the more clearly I can see the connections between my faith and NA,” a member explained. When we find ways to share our new insights using our common language of recovery, our ability to carry the NA message strengthens. Our fellowship matures and develops as each of us brings our increasing understanding to the table; we grow from one another’s experience when we are willing to share and to listen with an open mind.”*

*(Admitted, Clean, Daily Reprieve, Discovered, Enjoy Life Without Drugs, Faith, Free to Live, God of my understanding, It Works, Keeping Our Message Clear, Listen, Maintaining Abstinence, Open Mind, Sharing, Spirituality, Welcomed, Willing to Share, Working the Steps)*