---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Jan 07
title: A Safety Net
---
Admitting to the God of my understanding that indeed I had done much wrong in my life was no easy task. I had to get past this concept that He was a punishing entity... I had learned this concept growing up. I could not get all those Bible stories out of my head where people were punished for the wrongs they had done. I was fearful that I also would be punished. Then the person I was to do my Fifth Step with spoke up. I guess he could see the fear in my eyes. He suggested that we begin with a prayer. I figured fire and brimstone would likely follow. But I was wrong. The prayer that was spoken was the Third Step prayer. *“Many of us have said, 'Take my will and my life. Guide me in my recovery. Show me how to live'.”* It reminded me that I had made a decision to turn over my will and my life to the “care” of the God of my understanding.

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Four, How It Works, Step Three*** it tells us: *“With the help of a loving God, we are ready to move forward on our journey. This is a twelve-step program, not a three-step program. The decision we’ve made in the Third Step is perhaps the most momentous decision we’ll ever make in our lives, but we need to work the rest of the steps for it to remain meaningful. There is more work to do. We have found that the spiritual path set forth in the Twelve Steps is the only way to recovery in Narcotics Anonymous. Putting our recovery commitment into action, we work Step Four.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 3: A Spiritual Path, Conscious Contact*** it also tells us: *“Prayer helps us to let go of our fear and distrust and to live in faith. We don’t have to understand it for it to work. We open the door to a faith deep within that allows us to meet adversity with serenity. “I strive to practice prayer in every moment,” said one member. “Of course, I fail every day, but it is changing my perspective. I am very aware of the fragility and preciousness of life.” Instead of giving so much thought to why things happen, we look for what we can learn. A member shared, “In early recovery my prayers were sporadic acts of desperation and surrender. I learned prayer as a way to practice conscious contact. Now I find if I can remember my Higher Power in the moment, my life becomes a prayer, my wisdom is activated in meditation, and I exist within the will of my Higher Power. I am spiritually free, the farthest from active addiction and the closest to the pure joy of existence in the moment.”*

*(Action, Commitment, Conscious Contact, Existence in the Moment, Faith, God of My Understanding, Guide Me in My Recovery, Journey, Joy, Let Go of Our Fear and Distrust, Meditation, Momentous Decision, More Work to Do, Prayer, Show Me How to Live, Serenity, Spiritual Path, Steps, Surrender, Take My Will and My Life, Third Step Prayer, Wisdom)*