---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Jan 08
title: A Spiritual Journey
---
Recovery brings me a sense of freedom and happiness I have never known before. I can perhaps for the first time in my life experience joy. My problems seem to disappear as I work the steps and use the principles of the Narcotics Anonymous program to guide me. Those problems I still have do not trouble me, for I know that I have been given the tools I need to address whatever may come my way. One day after another passes, and I see the promises happen in my life. From time to time I look back and see just how far I have come, but I also know that the journey is not over.

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Three, Why Are We Here?*** it tells us: *“When we realize that we are not able to manage without drugs, some of us immediately begin experiencing depression, anxiety, hostility and resentment. Petty frustrations, minor setbacks and loneliness often make us feel that we are not getting any better. We find that we suffer from a disease, not a moral dilemma. We were critically ill, not hopelessly bad. Our disease can only be arrested through abstinence.*

*Today, we experience a full range of feelings. Before coming into the Fellowship, we either felt elated or depressed. Our negative sense of self has been replaced by a positive concern for others. Answers are provided, and problems are solved. It is a great gift to feel human again.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 2: The Ties That Bind, Connection to Ourselves*** it also tells us: *“Some of us punish ourselves in recovery for years, holding ourselves back from joy because we feel we don’t deserve it. The tools and the love we find in NA can help us break these patterns, no matter how long we have been living with them.”*

*(Abstinence, Arrested, Experience, Feel Human Again, Feelings, Freedom, Gifts, Happiness, Journey, Love, Not a Moral Dilemma, Positive Concern For Others, Principles, Promises, Steps, Suffer From a Disease, Tools)*