---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Jan 09
title: Ability to Love
---
Another gift from the Narcotics Anonymous program I receive is the ability to love. I am not talking of the selfish passion, which I had for drugs, rather an unselfish desire to be of help to others. I genuinely want to reach out to others and give them my best efforts. I want to do what is right for them. This ability to love others in an unselfish manner begins with an acceptance that I need to do what the God of my understanding wants me to do. It comes by putting the other guy first and me last. This is the exact opposite of how I behaved in my active addiction. When I was using drugs everything was about me.

In recovery I have learned that I do not need to behave in this way. When I put the God of my understanding first, I no longer need to worry about my own selfish needs. I know I will be taken care of through His love. I am free to care about and give to others. This includes those I meet in Narcotics Anonymous, as well as my family and other friends. In recovery I am given one opportunity after another truly to love others. In giving from my heart, my agenda is lost; and I serve the God of my understanding's agenda.

Am I making progress in loving others?

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Ten, More Will Be Revealed*** it tells us: *“Higher mental and emotional functions, such as conscience and the ability to love, were sharply affected by our drug use. Living skills were reduced to the animal level. Our spirit was broken. The capacity to feel human was lost. This seems extreme, but many of us have been in this state.*

*In time, through recovery, our dreams come true. We don’t mean that we necessarily become rich or famous. However, by realizing the will of our Higher Power, dreams do come true in recovery.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 1: Living Clean, Why We Stay*** it also tells us: *“We have found a way in—to life, to freedom, to passion, to limitless growth. We are no longer trapped in a process driven by our own desperation. Something different happens as we move into recovery motivated by passion, hope, and excitement. We are released into our own lives. We are freed from the feeling that we must constantly be on guard. We are free to discover the capacity of our own hearts: Where we have been closed down, we have the ability to love and care for others more deeply than we had imagined.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 4: Our Physical Selves, Letting Ourselves Go*** it also tells us: *“When we fall back into disliking or even hating ourselves, our ability to love suffers. We buy into the old lie that we are not worth it or we’re broken. As we let go of the defects of character and other baggage we have been carrying, we begin to uncover the truth of our humanity, our spirituality, and our beauty. Accepting that can be some of the hardest work we will ever do.”*

*(Acceptance, Dreams Come True, Excitement, Freedom, God of my understanding, Hope, Limitless Growth, Love, Opportunities, Passion, Progress, Service, Spirituality, Truth of Our Humanity, Unselfish Manner)*