---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Jan 10
title: Accept the Challenges
---
God of my understanding,

You brighten my day, and You also challenge me to keep growing. You have provided me with a unique set of tools and friends to teach me how to use them. Let me reach forward in my recovery and accept the challenges as they come. Strengthen my faith in Your presence in my life.

Amen

In our ***IT WORKS HOW AND WHY, BOOK ONE: The Twelve Steps, Step Ten*** it tells us: *“The importance of keeping in touch with our thoughts, attitudes, feelings, and behavior cannot be overemphasized. Every day, life presents us with new challenges. Our recovery depends on our willingness to meet those challenges. Our experience tells us that some members relapse, even after long periods of clean time, because they have become complacent in recovery, allowing their resentments to build and refusing to acknowledge their wrongs. Little by little, those small hurts, half-truths, and “justified” grudges turn into deep disappointments, serious self-deceptions, and full-blown resentments. We can’t allow these threats to compromise our recovery. We have to deal with situations such as these as soon as they arise.*

*In the Tenth Step, we use all the principles and actions we learned in the previous steps, applying them to our lives on a consistent basis. Beginning our days by reaffirming our decision to live life according to our Higher Power’s will has helped many of us keep spiritual ideals foremost in our minds throughout the day. Even so, we are bound to make mistakes that are very familiar to us. We can attribute virtually every wrongdoing to a character defect we identified in the Sixth Step. Humbly asking the God of our understanding to remove our shortcomings is just as necessary now as it was in the Seventh Step.*

*In the Tenth Step, we take such actions on a regular basis. Each day, we take our own inventory, look for those times when we fall short of our spiritual ideals, and renew our efforts to live a principle-centered life. For example, when we are faced with the tendency to behave compulsively, ignoring the consequences of our actions, we need to focus on spiritual principles, take prompt action, and continue forward in our recovery.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 7: The Journey Continues, Sitting Ourselves Apart*** it also tells us: *“No amount of cleantime can make us immune to our disease or exempt us from the challenges of life. Recovery is an every day, just for today process. A relationship with our Higher Power requires ongoing conscious contact, and ongoing growth requires that we remain teachable. “Keeping it green” means that we are still in process, still willing to change and grow and work on ourselves. We keep our recovery alive by feeding it. If we are not getting ongoing support and nourishment, we get depleted. It is our responsibility to find that support, even if it means we need to reach out across long distances.”*

*(Acceptance, Attitudes, Behavior, Change, Challenges, Cleantime, Conscious Contact, Experience, Faith, Feelings, Grow, Just For Today, Principles, Process, Reaffirming, Responsibility, Steps, Support, Teachable, Thoughts, Truth, Willingness)*