---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Jan 11
title: Accepting His Will
---
In those times of rebellion, I simply wanted to be back in charge; I wanted to run the show again. Other times when I really appreciated these words, it became clear to me that I had no idea what I was doing, and I needed help. As I have grown in recovery, I have repeated these words often. Over time I have worked hard to grow in the acceptance of these words. When I have honestly tried to do the God of my understanding’s will and humbly accepted the results, I have found myself to be happier, at peace and secure in my recovery.

In our ***IT WORKS HOW AND WHY, BOOK ONE: The Twelve Steps, Step Eleven*** it tells us: *“We sought through prayer and meditation to improve our conscious contact with God as we understood Him, praying only for knowledge of His will for us and the power to carry that out.*

*Through out our recovery, one of the things which stands out as a result of our working the steps is our success in building a relationship with the God of our understanding. Our initial efforts resulted in the decision we made in the Third Step. We continued by working the following steps, each one of which were designed to clear away whatever barriers might stand between our Higher Power and ourselves. As a result, we are open to receive our Higher Power’s love and guidance directly into our lives.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 3: A Spiritual Path, Spirituality in Action*** it also tells us: *“The ability to change our assumptions about the world is one of the most important freedoms we have, because it enables us to see alternatives we couldn’t imagine before. We disguised our low self-esteem as lack of interest in the world around us and saw our lives as a narrow path between bad alternatives. “I saw myself as an obstacle to God’s will,” said another member. Our relationship to our Higher Power has suffered a lot of damage in our addiction, and it can be one of the hardest to amend.*

*We know that indifference or intolerance toward spiritual principles is very dangerous for us, but sometimes we develop a different kind of intolerance after we have been clean for a while. We may develop a set of beliefs in recovery and resist anything that seems to threaten them or call them into question. But this is precisely the way that what we know about the truth can be revised. The truth is not what changes; it’s what we know about it, how we “understand it. As we get closer to the truth we come to understand that it cannot hurt us, even if it is painful in the moment. A member shared, “Letting go of old beliefs was hard because I didn’t really know what I believed to begin with.” The work we do in the steps can help us figure out what we believe and whether our beliefs still work for us.”*

*(Acceptance, Beliefs, Chance, Conscious Contact, Freedom, God of my understanding, God’s will, Honesty, Humility, Letting Go, Love and Guidance, Peace, Prayer and Meditation, Relationship, Secure, Self-esteem, Spiritual Principles, Working the Steps)*