---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Jan 12
title: Accepting Help
---
The God of my understanding can choose to help me with any of my problems if I only bring them to Him. For me this is often times the hard part because it means that I actually have to admit that I still have problems. It also requires that I humble myself enough to ask for help. I often get into a mindset that I can handle my problems on my own.

First, I must recognize my needs and my inability to meet all of them on my own. Next, I learn that I need to carry these needs to the God of my understanding and ask for help. Finally, I need to become willing to accept the help that is offered. This too can be a problem, particularly if I do not like the kind of help that I am offered. The God of my understanding does not always build a wall for me; frequently God shows me how it is done.

Am I willing to accept my need for help and reach out to get it?

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Eight, We Do Recover*** it tells us: *“In the past, there was no hope for an addict. In Narcotics “Anonymous, we learn to share the loneliness, anger, and fear that addicts have in common and cannot control. Our old ideas are what got us into trouble. We weren’t oriented toward fulfillment; we focused on the emptiness and worthlessness of it all. We could not deal with success, so failure became a way of life. In recovery, failures are only temporary setbacks rather than links in an unbreakable chain. Honesty, open-mindedness and willingness to change are all new attitudes that help us to admit our faults and to ask for help. We are no longer compelled to act against our true nature and to do things that we don’t really want to do.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 5: Relationships*** it also tells us: *“We have not been easy people. We do harm when we are using, and the people who are closest to us get the worst of it. We can be stubborn and suspicious, angry and afraid, sarcastic, willful, and set in our ways. We have been through hell, and we have put others through hell, too. We’ve experienced loss and failure and often violence. Even if we come in with families or careers intact, we need to change how we deal with them. Gaining these skills in recovery can be a long and sometimes painful process. When we look back on our active addiction and see the harm we caused, the relationships we destroyed, and the opportunities for intimacy we threw away, we may be overwhelmed by the wreckage. But we can also find some gratitude for the fact that we are clean now and we are changing. Our history with relationships can lead us to think that there is no hope for us in this area, but our experience with the Second Step proves to us that we can be restored to sanity. We need help that our loved ones cannot give us. The therapeutic value of one addict helping another really is without parallel. Caring and sharing the NA way is the ultimate weapon against our alienating, isolating, destructive disease.”*

*(Acceptance, Ask For Help, Caring, Change, Experience, God of my understanding, Gratitude, Honesty, Humility, Open-mindedness, Sharing, Steps, Temporary Setbacks, Therapeutic Value, Ultimate Weapon, Willingness)*