---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Jan 13
title: Accepting Love
---
God of My Understanding,

Someone once told me, “God don’t make junk.” Help me value myself as You value and love me. Help me to recognize and accept love from others in the Narcotics Anonymous. Help me not to try and manipulate to satisfy my inner desire for love. Give me courage for this day.

Amen

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Ten, More Will Be Revealed*** it tells us: *“We grow through pain in recovery and often find that such a crisis is a gift, an opportunity to experience growth by living clean. Before recovery, we were unable to even conceive of the thought that problems brought gifts. This gift may be finding strength within ourselves or regaining the feeling of self-respect that we had lost.*

*Spiritual growth, love, and compassion are idle potentials until shared with a fellow addict. By giving unconditional love in the Fellowship, we become more loving, and by “sharing spiritual growth we become more spiritual.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 5: Friendship*** it also tells us: *“There is a paradox here: We need to develop empathy and concern for others, and to let go of self-obsession without losing sight of ourselves. We can swing from one extreme to the other, from self-obsession to self-neglect and then back again. When we find ourselves caught in this pattern, we may be full of resentment and frustration. When we step back and do some inventory, we can see that our willingness to disappear into someone else’s needs was not selflessness at all, but rather a reach for control—being indispensable makes some of us feel important, just as being taken care of does for others. When we let go of selfishness and self-centeredness, we don’t lose who we are; we enhance it. There is always more room for empathy and greater capacity for love. We come to understand that just being ourselves really is enough to be loved and cared for by others and by a power greater than ourselves. We all have the opportunity to experience this freedom, but it takes some of us longer than others. We move in and out of self-centeredness as we learn to distinguish among our needs, desires, and fears.”*

*(Compassion, Concern, Courage, Empathy, Experience, Freedom, Gifts, God of my understanding, Inventory, Let Go, Living Clean, Opportunity, Prayer, Sharing, Spiritual Growth Unconditional Love, Understanding)*