---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Jan 14
title: Accepting My Journey
---
I walked through the door of Narcotics Anonymous lost, but I was found. In the Narcotics Anonymous program, I was provided with a roadmap to recovery. I was given the principles and the steps that lead me on my journey of recovery. The path I must travel is not always easy, particularly in the early going. Over time the path widens, and it is no longer steep and winding. This is not to say that there are no twists or turns, just as I become increasingly familiar with using the roadmap, my journey becomes more predictable and more secure. In recovery I have many guides who will lead me from one point to another. These are but trusted servants who know the way better than I do.

In our ***Basic Text, Our Members Share, Life on Life’s Terms, NA Is a Road Map*** it tells us: *“But I started to have problems with my boss, who wanted to stop me from going to NA meetings. I refused. Twice I had turned my back on Narcotics Anonymous and my life had become a nightmare. I would not make that same mistake again. I was fired and returned to Lisbon. I felt insecure and afraid of what people might think of me. But this time things were different: I had Narcotics Anonymous in my life and the desire to change. I found that the Twelve Steps of NA are a road map that show me the best direction to get to my destination: to view others with respect and consideration, to learn to value myself and accept life on its own terms, and to stop living based on fantasy—to abandon the idea that I am the center of the universe.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Preface*** it also tells us: *“Recovery is a full-contact, lifelong process. The more serious we are about it, the more clearly we can see how much growth is still available to us, no matter where we are on the journey. We are never done learning. Continued practice of the program of Narcotics Anonymous doesn’t just make our lives easier. It makes them richer, better, and more interesting. We begin by staying clean, and from there the program gives us the tools we need to find the answers that are right for us. Different moments teach us, reach us, or help us break through. We hope that the experience we share here will serve to propel our members forward, beyond what we know now.”*

*(Consideration, Desire to Change, Growth, Guides, Journey, Lifelong Process, Life On Its Own Terms, Never Done Learning, Predictable, Principles, Respect, Secure, Service, Staying Clean, Steps, Tools, Trusted Servants, Value Myself, Will Lead Me)*