---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Jan 15
title: Accepting Who I Am
---
Learning can happen in a variety of different ways, but perhaps the most powerful learning I do is from my mistakes. When I fall on my face, I can use these experiences to learn. I can talk with others in Narcotics Anonymous and seek out different ways to handle similar situations in the future. I don't have to keep making the same mistakes. In fact, Just For Today I believe the only mistakes that exist are the ones I do not learn from. In this life no one can achieve perfection in all that they do. We all miss the boat, fall on our face and stumble as we walk through life. When this happens, we have an opportunity to learn, take corrective action and change our behavior. 

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Ten, More Will Be Revealed*** it tells us:

*"We come to know ourselves for the first time. We experience new sensations: to love, to be loved, to know that people care about us and to have concern and compassion for others. We find ourselves doing and enjoying things that we never thought we would be doing. We make mistakes, and we accept and learn from them. We experience failure, and we learn how to succeed. Often we have to face some type of crisis during our recovery, such as the death of a loved one, financial difficulties or divorce. These are realities of life, and they don’t go away just because we get clean. Some of us, even after years of recovery, found ourselves jobless, homeless or penniless. We entertained the thought that staying clean was not paying off, and the old think- ingstirred up self-pity, resentment and anger. No matter how painful life’s tragedies can be for us, one thing is clear, we must not use, no matter what!"* 

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 2: The Ties That Bind, Connection to Ourselves*** it also tells us: *“The simple act of accepting ourselves changes us. We start treating ourselves better and we respond to the world with a new humility. The Basic Text says in the Eighth Step, “We want to look the world in the eye with neither aggressiveness nor fear.” As we clean up our wreckage and live differently, we can respect our actions and find respect for ourselves in the process. Part of the charm of many of our more experienced members is that they can seem so eccentric. One suggested that this was a consequence of no longer having defenses in the way. More and more, we are comfortable just being ourselves. We appear in the world exactly as we are. That freedom is part of the promise of our Third Tradition. Because we have only one requirement for membership—the desire to stop using—we are given permission to be who we are. We no longer have to lie to gain acceptance.”* 

*(Acceptance, Change, Compassion, Corrective Action, Desire to Stop Using, Experiences, Freedom, Humility, Just For Today, Learning, Love, One Requirement For Membership, Opportunity, Permission, Respect, Steps, Traditions, We Must Not Use~No Matter What)*