---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Jan 16
title: Addiction
---
As a slave to addiction, I had no power; I simply did what I had to do - get wasted. There was no other choice; at least I did not think so. Then one day I walked into a Narcotics Anonymous meeting. I expected to find more slaves who had been beaten by the disease. But to my surprise what I found were people just like me who had come to know freedom. They were free of the chains of addiction. It no longer had a hold on them.

Narcotics Anonymous offers only one promise... Freedom from active addiction.

In our ***Basic Text, Introduction*** it tells us: *“The Twelve Steps of Narcotics Anonymous, as adapted from A.A., are the basis of our recovery program. We have only broadened their perspective. We follow the same path with a single exception; our identification as addicts is all-inclusive with respect to any mood-changing, mind-altering substance. Alcoholism is too limited a term for us; our problem is not a specific substance, it is a disease called addiction. We believe that as a fellowship, we have been guided by a Greater Consciousness, and are grateful for the direction that has enabled us to build upon a proven program of recovery.*

*We come to Narcotics Anonymous by various means and believe that our common denominator is that we failed to come to terms with our addiction. Because of the variety of addicts found within our Fellowship, we approach the solution contained within this book in general terms. We pray that we have been searching and thorough, so that every addict who reads this volume will find the hope that we have found.*

*Based on our experience, we believe that every addict, including the potential addict, suffers from an incurable disease of body, mind, and spirit. We were in the grip of a hopeless dilemma, the solution of which is spiritual in nature.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 3: A Spiritual Path, Awakening to Our Spirituality*** it also tells us: *“Our primary action is surrender, and we come back to it every day. There is always room to let go a little more. There is great freedom in understanding that we always have the option to surrender. In the beginning we may be confused and think we need to surrender to our disease; in fact, that’s what most of us were doing before we got here! In active addiction, we turned our will over to our disease every day. In recovery we learn to surrender to the process, to the program, and ultimately to a power greater than ourselves. When we give up the battle we place ourselves entirely in the care of a power greater than ourselves. It follows naturally that we commit ourselves to the service of that power, however we understand it.”*

*(All-inclusive, Basis of Our Recovery Program, Believe, Commit Ourselves, Experience, Fellowship, Freedom, Greater Consciousness, Identification, Let Go, One Promise, Process, Service, Solution, Spiritual In Nature, Surrender)*