---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Jan 17
title: Closer to God
---
Somehow, I need to find a way to be closer to the God of my understanding. The closer I get to the Him, the more I am filled with an inner peace. The more I am in communion with the God of my understanding, the stronger the relationship becomes. It was no different with my drugs. The more time I spent getting wasted, the stronger the relationship became. The bondage of addiction had me, and I could not escape. The Narcotics Anonymous program has changed all that for me. Now I want to be closer and closer to the God of my understanding. I want that freedom.

In our ***Basic Text, Our Members Share, Life on Life’s Terms, The Gratitude Side of Circumstance*** it tells us: *“While each new day is the most important one in my recovery, I have found great value in staying clean for an extended period. I came to recovery at age thirty-five; now, at the time of this writing, I am in my early sixties. Many difficult things have happened in my life over those years, but my recovery program has allowed me to meet the challenges without causing hurt and damage in most cases. Loss of loved ones, physical and emotional setbacks, and other hardships are certain to be part of our lives as we grow older, and I am so very grateful that I’ve been in recovery for most of them in my life so far. I’ve learned, with a lot of help, to practice spiritual principles in my affairs and to find some inner peace.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 3: A Spiritual Path, Spirituality in Action*** it also tells us: *“I used to feel embarrassed, strange, and empty when I prayed,” another member admitted. “My relationship with my God required that I persevere. I had to keep praying through the times when I didn’t feel anything. It took a long time for it to become natural to me.” Being willing to keep trying when it feels hard—or when it doesn’t feel like anything at all—is an act of faith. We get through these difficult times by having a daily spiritual practice: The habit carries us through until the feelings change. We have faith in the experience of our fellow members that somehow, this practice is going to help.*

*Willingness to step out and try a relationship with a Higher Power can be powerful, but we may hesitate in the beginning. We put a toe in the water first. We may struggle with prayer and meditation for a long time before we feel something engage. One member shared, “I experimented with different practices for seven years before I found the right grace in the right place. Finding the path for my spirituality was like finding shoes that fit.” Another member shared that she was so resistant to prayer that her sponsor resorted to extremes: “Put your Basic Text on one side of the room, sit on the other side, and reach out your hand,” said the sponsor. “You have just prayed.” However we do it, prayer is an act of reaching out for help and connection. It is an act of humility and honesty, and for some of us it is the first honest or humble action we take.”*

*(Act of Faith, Each New Day Is the Most Important One In My Recovery, Freedom, God of My Understanding, Grateful, Humility, Honesty, Inner Peace, Meet the Challenges, Practice Spiritual Principles, Prayer, Reaching Out For Help, Staying Clean, Willingness)*