---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Jan 18
title: Walk the Walk
---
God of my understanding,

Step by step I must walk just for today. I admit I need guidance along the way. Help me to follow Your will for me. Step by step You show me the way. I must “walk the walk,” but You show the way. When I stumble along the way, You pick me up so that I may continue this path.

Amen

I remember my first sponsor, Bob T., stopping me when I was reading the Steps without saying the number of the Step and telling me the Steps are numbered for a reason, say the number.

In our ***Basic Text, Our Members Share, Life on Life’s Terms, Life and Death in NA*** it tells us: *“I came into this program a father of two awesome sons. When I had two years clean I was blessed with a third son. Throughout recovery I have done my best to be a good father. I made mistakes, but I also learned to love, protect, and provide for my boys instead of trying to control, dominate, and fill them with fear as I had done most of my life. I did not want my boys to live as I had, with hate, anger, fear, and disregard for life. No matter what message I carry through words, my boys watch how I act and react to situations. I had to learn to walk the NA walk and do my best to practice the principles in all my affairs, because my boys would mimic my positive traits and my defects of character.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 7: The Journey Continues, Setting Ourselves Apart*** it also tells us: *“The best way to model recovery is to walk the walk, and show up honest and real. When we are sort of showing up and we’re sort of honest, we’re “sort of” in danger. We need to remember that our first job, always, is to allow our own lives to be saved. Sharing what is real for us is a benefit to our recovery and a responsibility to those who follow, even if it doesn’t make us look good. A member shared: “I remember the people who were here when I got here and how they bared their souls in meetings, and I follow suit. It’s a benefit to my recovery and a responsibility to those who follow.” We learn from each other’s experience. Sharing our journey with others is how we teach and learn at the same time. Honest sharing is always attractive, even when we are sharing some really unattractive stuff. When we are honest and open, it resonates with people. When we are humble, they feel it—and so do we.”*

*(All My Affairs, Bared Their Souls, Experience, God of my understanding, Honest and Open, Honest and Real, Humble, Learned to Love, Message, Numbered For a Reason, Practice the Principles, Prayer, Protect, Provide For, Positive Traits, Responsibility, Sharing Our Journey, Step by Step, Steps, Teach and Learn, Walk the Walk)*