---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Jan 19
title: Always Ready to Help
---
God of my understanding,

Just for today I walk in the confidence that You are always ready to help me. I trust that You will give me what I need just for today. Help me just for today to strengthen the building blocks in the foundation of my recovery.

Amen

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Eight, We Do Recover*** it tells us: *“As long as there have been people, addiction has existed. For us, addiction is an obsession to use the drugs that are destroying us, followed by a compulsion that forces us to continue. Complete abstinence is the foundation for our new way of life.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 2: The Ties That Bind, Connection to the World Around Us*** it also tells us: *“We build our foundation in recovery. As we become more secure, we broaden our horizons and accomplish goals we would never have considered before. Many of us go back to school, pursue careers, and start families. We come back regularly to check our foundation for cracks and shifting, and to reinforce it where needed. Such a sturdy foundation would not be necessary if we were just pitching a tent, but we build skyscrapers on our foundations. Those skyscrapers must be securely grounded so that renovating one room doesn’t cause the entire structure to collapse.*

*The tools we use to build our foundation are not the only tools we need later on. It’s not that they lose their value. The basics are always important—but at some point they may not be enough to sustain us. When we arrive at a moment when everything we know is not enough for us, we turn to members with more experience. We are likely to get the same simple guidance we have heard from the beginning: The answers are in the steps. A deeper relationship with the steps continues to develop even after we have worked them many times. For some of us, consistent practices of prayer, meditation, writing, or physical exercise are useful in the beginning but grow richer over time. The simple fact of having maintained a practice for a long time offers a structure for our program that we can depend on.”*

*(Basics Are Always Important, Complete Abstinence, Experience, Foundation, God of my understanding, Meditation, New Way of Life, Our Program, Physical Exercise, Practice, Prayer, Steps, Structure, Tools, Trust)*