---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Jan 20
title: "Anger and Resentment "
---
Anger and resentment were constant companions when I first got clean. I do not really know if I understood what I was so angry about. In working my way through the steps of the Narcotics Anonymous program, I began to uncover some of the reasons for my anger and resentments. I really hated the fact that I was an addict. I resented many of the consequences I had experienced and continued to have even though I was clean. I resented some of the people in my life and how I had been treated. I was angry with myself for allowing some of these things to occur. Step Six showed me that I needed to let go of these resentments.

In our ***Basic Text, Our Members Share, Life on Life’s Terms, Breath of Life*** it tells us: *“I had some beliefs stuck inside that were killing me. All of my anger and resentments from the past, my childhood, my mistakes, my grief, my loss—that pain so deep, no amount of beastly behavior could dull it—had to go. If I didn’t let go of all of it, I wasn’t going to live. In tears, I wrote it all out on paper. I found a sponsor who was like a surgeon when it came to inventories. She said, “Are you ready to meet yourself?” I thought, I don’t know. What will happen when I let this out of me? I was afraid. She told me, “HP is right here, right now. We are loved and it’s safe.” So I gave it up, and after I “did I felt relief. I wondered why I didn’t do this sooner! I felt alive, and you know what? I felt clean. I realized that clean is the new high! This was step work? I liked it! I learned that I wasn’t going to get hurt by this. I also knew I had a lot more work to do. Construction was under way.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 7: The Journey Continues, Principles, Practice, and Perspective*** it also tells us: *“Finding a loving way to address differences of opinion or experience in NA gives us tools to reach out differently in the rest of our lives. We learn in the process that communication is at the heart of forgiveness. We can hang on for years to a resentment that could have been resolved with a simple conversation. Facing uncomfortable situations and taking loving action is a demonstration of maturity and grace. Emotional maturity is our reward for letting go of anger and resentment.* 

*We don’t get to choose our next generation in Narcotics Anonymous. It can be surprising who stays clean and who doesn’t. We have had the experience of burying someone who looked like the “most likely to succeed,” and of celebrating the anniversary of the craziest long shot in the room. As we stay around NA, we have a tendency to think that the members who are newer than us don’t have the kind of foundation or experience we do. It’s our responsibility to share what we were given, and to ensure that NA continues to grow. An experienced member suggested, “They are going to bring their experience to this program that saves my life, so I better be sure they have what they need to save me.”*

*(Anger and Resentment, Communication, Consequences, Experience, Finding a Loving Way, Forgiveness, Foundation, God of my understanding, Let Go, Resentment, Saves My Life, Share What We Were Given, Sponsorship, Steps, Tools)*