---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Jan 21
title: "Ask for a Humble Heart "
---
God of my understanding,

Help me to check my arrogance, pride, and self-importance each day. Let me not place roadblocks in the way of accepting Your gift of a humble heart. Let me share my experience, strength and hope with others in equal proportion to my willingness to learn from others’ experience, strength, and hope. Guide me in my steps along the path of recovery, for You alone know where I am to be Just For Today.

Amen

In our ***Basic Text, Our Members Share, Regardless of..., A Serene Heart*** it tells us: *“In NA’s traditions, I’m told that principles come before personalities. But what comes before principles? What gives an addict the strength and courage to live by the principles when recovery doesn’t make sense? Why stay clean when it’s impossible at times to feel the joy of recovery? I believe that the loving God described in Tradition Two that manifests in our group conscience, as well as in our service work, our fellowshipping, our work, and our play, is the same God that strengthens my personal recovery so I can live within the principles. Given the reality that I will face severe illness each day, and still being able to stay clean, that’s an incredible miracle! Spiritually, I’m in a state of grace. I don’t always feel it, but it’s always there. I should have died many times over when I was using. Now I live with another disease, equally painful, equally life-threatening. I know many people in and out of NA who have killed themselves because of mental illness. I’m not going to be one of them. It’s not an easy path, but I know that I’m alive because NA has blessed me with a clean life. Recovery makes it possible for me to treasure the moments when I have a serene heart, and to be grateful for the miracles, large and small, happening all around me.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 3: A Spiritual Path, A Spiritual Journey*** it also tells us: *“Spirituality is a relationship with reality. As we develop our spiritual lives, we find that reality becomes less frightening and less rigid. We learn to live with our freedom. We come to see that a change in our perspective can totally shift the way we understand our situation. When our lives are based in spirituality, our perceptions and responses are based in an ever-evolving relationship to something greater than ourselves. Self-obsession gives way to humility. We understand that we are not the main character in every play, but that our supporting efforts can make a real difference in the lives of those around us.”*

*(Courage,* *Freedom, God of my understanding,* *Humility, Prayer, Pride, Principles before Personalities, Relationship,* *Short Comings,* *Spirituality,* *Steps, Strength)*