---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Jan 22
title: Ask for Help
---
God of my understanding,

Recovery has provided me with many blessings. I am profoundly grateful that my gut does not always toss and turn anymore. I am also grateful for the times it does because I now know that I need to listen to what my gut is telling me. I also know that when I cannot really understand what is being communicated to me, I simply need to ask for help and talk things through. Thank You for this blessing just for today.

Amen

In our ***Basic Text, Our Members Share, Coming Home, Second Chance*** it tells us: *“Numbing those feelings felt like an option for a long, long time. It wasn’t until I began writing on my steps again, getting honest with my sponsor, and sharing in meetings that my thinking began to change. The more meetings I attended, the better I felt. I had to realize that what I had put myself through was a trauma to my body and mind. I had to quit fighting the grieving process that was necessary for me to begin to heal, trust, and change. It was necessary for me to grieve the woman I once was, the life I once had, and the marriage that my husband and I had worked so hard to build in order to accept the woman I was becoming and make a new life for myself. I learned to be gentle with myself, as I would with any newcomer.*

*The knowledge that I had accumulated the first thirteen years had to be put aside so I could become teachable. I had to learn the gift of humility and vulnerability. I learned to be honest with myself as well as with others, no matter the shame I felt. I learned how to ask for help and accept it when it was offered. The days of thinking that meetings were a social affair or fashion show were over. For me, meetings were essential to staying clean; this was the real deal. I was here this time to save my life.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 5: Relationships, Fellowship*** it tells us: *“Our spiritual awakening shows in our actions. We join a group, find a sponsor, take on a service position. We make commitments to show up and take action on a regular basis. We learn new ways to show our gratitude at the same time that we learn to be accountable. When we make a commitment, we learn to accept responsibility, to stick and stay through the hard parts, to do the best we can, and to ask for help when we need it. We learn our limits through over commitment, try to figure out the responsible way to let go, and find out it’s okay to make mistakes. We learn that adversity, even conflict, is not the end of the story. We may do service for ego to begin with, but we learn through difficulty to be selfless, and that’s the goal. We become part of something greater than ourselves. For most of our lives we were in the business of tearing down. What a joy it is to be part of something that not only saves people’s lives but makes them worth living.”*

*(Change, Commitment, God of my understanding, Heal, Honesty, Humility, Meetings, Responsible, Sharing, Spiritual Awakening,* *Steps, Teachable,* *Trust, Vulnerability)*