---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Jan 23
title: Attitude of Gratitude
---
Gratitude is an attitude that I must have just for today. I must remember to thank the God of my understanding and others even on the difficult days. Often, I find strength I did not even know I had. I know now that this is a gift of grace. It is easy to develop tunnel vision and only focus on the things that are going wrong. At times like this I must open my eyes to see the things that are going right. I need to look for those things that have changed in my life and understand that I am still a work in progress.

Do I take time to live in gratitude?

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Seven, Recovery and Relapse*** it tells us: *“As long as we maintain an attitude of thankfulness for being clean, we find it is easier to remain clean. The best way to express gratitude is by carrying the message of our experience, strength and hope to the still-suffering addict. We are ready to work with any suffering addict.*

*Living the program on a daily basis provides many valuable experiences. If we are plagued by an obsession to use, experience has taught us to call a fellow recovering addict and get to a meeting.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 3: A Spiritual Path, Creative Action of the Spirit*** it also tells us: *“Hope and freedom from active addiction come to us early and are given freely. This is what some of us call “the pink cloud.” We don’t have to work for it. But there comes a time when there is no more “just taking.” This is a crossroads; many of us stop here and never know what we have missed. We get the real rewards of recovery by giving back and giving forward, out of gratitude for what we have been given, and out of hope for what is to come. Being of loving service is living spiritually. First we take, then we give, then we share. Living fully is a creative expression of love for our Higher Power. To be fully alive, awake, and honest about who we are is a gift to us and from us.”*

*(Attitude, Clean, Experience, Freedom, Gift, Giving, God of my understanding, Grace, Gratitude, Honesty, Hope, Just For Today, Living the Program, Love, Service, Share, Spirituality, Strength, Thankfulness)*

***January 23,*** this date five years ago I was headed to the OVMC at 6am in the morning for my surgery on my left shoulder how time flies...