---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Jan 24
title: Back to the Basics
---
“Going back to the basics,” for me means using the slogans, prayer, meetings, phone calls and anything that works. I remember my sponsor telling me many times to go back to the basics. On bad days I get knocked off center, so I go to a place that can help me get centered again. I close my eyes and take several deep breaths. I calm down and quietly go through the steps one at a time. I use what I need to use – admitting powerlessness and unmanageability, believing that the God of my understanding can restore sanity, turning it over, whatever it takes. I ask for help, and I reach out to others. I have seen this process work for me again and again. It does not change what is going on in my life, but it changes how I am looking at it. It changes me. So, I remember to breathe. Thank You God for the Narcotics Anonymous program.

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Ten, More Will Be Revealed*** it tells us: *“Sometimes we find ourselves caught up in old ideas, even with time in the program. The basics are always important to recovery. We need to avoid old thinking patterns, both the old ideas and the tendency toward complacency. We cannot afford to become complacent, because our disease is with us twenty-four hours a day. If, while practicing these principles, we allow ourselves to feel superior or inferior, we isolate ourselves. We are headed for trouble if we feel apart from other addicts. Separation from the atmosphere of recovery and from the spirit of service to others slows our spiritual growth. Complacency keeps us from good will, love and compassion.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 2: The Ties That Bind, Connection to a Higher Power*** it also tells us: *“There is more than one way we understand the phrase “practicing these principles.” We practice, and we don’t always get it right. The Basic Text tells us in the Sixth Step, “We learn that we are growing when we make new mistakes…” Regular practice, beginning with the basics and gradually progressing from there, is exactly how we get good at anything, from learning to play an instrument or speak a new language to learning how to live a spiritual, principled, and rewarding life. We are not just learning new skills; we are breaking old habits. Some are so deeply ingrained that they feel like a part of who we are.”*

*(Atmosphere of Recovery, Basics, Breaking Old Habits, Breathe, Centered, Change, Compassion, Complacency, Good Will, Learn, Love, Meetings, New Mistakes, Practice, Prayer, Principles, Rewarding Life, Spirit of Service, Spiritual Growth, Steps)*