---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Jan 25
title: Balance
---
Each of us has other responsibilities in our life. We have family, occupational, financial, health and personal responsibilities that exist outside of the Narcotics Anonymous meetings. We need to carry the Narcotics Anonymous program into each of these areas of our life and apply the Spiritual Principles of the Narcotics Anonymous program to all that we do. Here is where we practice the Spiritual Principles. I crawled out of the swamp of addiction, and I now must learn to walk through life. Walking requires that I learn balance.

In our ***IP# 5 Another Look*** it tells us: *"In order to find better balance, we examine personal, social, and spiritual values as well as material values. Maturity seems to demand this kind of evaluation."*

In our ***Basic Text, Our Members Share, Life on Life’s Terms, Sacred Places Inside*** it also tells us: “*I believe I needed to experience my relapse in order to take recovery seriously. I realize that relapse is not an easy matter and not everyone makes it back. I experienced horrible days and lost many things that were important to me. Today I know that I cannot stay away from meetings, that I need to move on the path of recovery on a daily basis and make steady progress. I realize that in order to keep what I have, I need to share it with others. I have come to know unconditional love and have more balance in life. I experience serenity and know that NA really works.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 3: A Spiritual Path, A, Not Religious Program*** it also tells us: *“As our spirituality develops, we become increasingly grateful for our lives and the people in them. The more good we can see in the world around us, the more grateful we become for the power that brings us to that awareness. When our bodies, minds, and spirits are in harmony, our lives show the difference. We are able to live in balance.”*

*(Apply the Spiritual Principles, Balance, Daily Basis, Freedom, Goodwill, Grateful, Harmony, Maturity, Meetings, Progress, Responsibilities, Serenity, Share, Spirituality, Unconditional Love)*