---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Jan 26
title: Be of Service
---
God of my understanding,

Show me Just For Today how I may be of service to others. Let me not be afraid of where this may lead me but trust that You will guide me in all that I do. Thank You for letting me stay plugged into You. Help me Just was For Today to reach out to You in all that I do and to seek Your direction.

Amen

 I cannot keep what I got unless I give it away...

***Service Prayer:*** *"God, grant us the knowledge that we may act according to your divine precepts. Instill in us a sense of your purpose, make us servants of your will and grant us a bond of selflessness that this may truly be your work, not ours, so that no addict, anywhere, need die from the horrors of addiction."*

***As adapted from the Introduction section in our Basic Text, Fifth Edition***

In our ***IT WORKS HOW AND WHY, BOOK TWO: The Twelve Traditions, Tradition One*** it tells us: *“Selflessness is another indispensable element in unity. The principles we learn in the steps help us let go of our selfishness and lovingly serve the needs of others. To keep our groups healthy, we place the needs of our group ahead of our own personal desires. The same principle applies to our affairs as a group. Setting aside what we may want as a group, we think about the needs of the fellowship and seek ways to support our common good. Our ability to survive as a fellowship and to reach others depends on our unity.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 7: The Journey Continues, Being of Service*** it also tells us: *“Service can be an escape, or it can give us access to new parts of ourselves by allowing skills and interests to surface. When we think we’re climbing a ladder, using our position as proof of some kind of success, that’s just ego in action. But when we are giving back out of gratitude, selflessly and with the best interests of the whole at heart, we find that the experience can be as rewarding as it is productive. When we are spiritually awake, we need to be of service—and we have to do the step work to handle it.”*

*(Act According, Divine Precepts, Fellowship, Gratitude, Interests, Just For Today, Knowledge, Let Go, Lovingly, Principle applies to our affairs as a group, Selflessness, Service, Skills, Spiritually Awake, Unity, Whole at Heart)*