---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Jan 27
title: Being a Better Person
---
In all my personal relationships, I began to see evidence of a God of my understanding working in my life to improve it. Over and over again I would see the God of my understanding guide and direct me. I was given opportunities for change. I was given strength, and I was given courage. I found myself doing things that I did not know I was capable of doing. Just for today I am convinced that each of the changes I have gone through on this journey have occurred only because the God of my understanding was leading me on this path. Seeing this evidence has only worked to strengthen my faith that the God of my understanding is indeed caring for me.

In our ***IT WORKS HOW AND WHY, BOOK TWO: The Twelve Traditions, Tradition Five*** it tells us: *“There is a power that works through this program. We tap this power when we practice the Twelfth Step as individuals, carrying the message to other addicts. When groups carry the message, the impact of the Twelfth Step is greatly multiplied. Even more impressive than sheer numbers of recovering addicts is the unity of purpose and the atmosphere of recovery found in meetings—a spiritual power. The evidence of that power in the group is hard to deny. It is a power we can draw on between meetings to stay clean”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 5: Relationships*** it also tells us: *“Recovery doesn’t happen in a vacuum. We need one another, and we need to be involved with the world around us in order to recover. Living clean is all about relationships—with ourselves, with our loved ones, with our fellow members, with society, and ultimately with our Higher Power. The people in our lives are the means by which we experience grace. We see the miracle of change in others, and they reflect our own changes back to us. They are windows through which we see the world, and vehicles by which we achieve spiritual progress.”*

*(Caring, Carry the Message, Change, Courage, Draw On, Faith, God of my understanding, Grace, Guide and Direct Me, Journey, Power, Practice, Relationships, Spiritual, Steps, Strength, Traditions, Unity, We)*