---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Jan 28
title: Value My Recovery
---
So, the question each addict faces is this - What do I truly value? It is easy to say the words that I value my recovery, but it is entirely something different to look at where I spend my time. My sponsor once told me that all I had to do to determine what I really valued was to look at how I was spending my time. If I truly valued the Narcotics Anonymous program, I would spend time at meetings and working the Steps of Narcotics Anonymous. If I truly valued a relationship with the God of my understanding, I would spend time with Him in prayer and meditation. If I truly valued honesty and the things that recovery had gifted me with, then this is where I would spend my time.

Do I truly value my recovery?

In our ***Basic Text, Our Members Share, Life on Life’s Terms, Speaking Up*** it tells us: *“I am very grateful to Narcotics Anonymous for so many things, not least for the ability to survive long enough to truly get to know and value myself. There have been many awakenings and miracles along the way, and one of the most important for me was that through the meetings and program of NA, I have found my voice. And through finding my voice, I have found myself.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 5: Relationships, Bridging Two Worlds: Relationships Outside NA*** it also tells us: *“Recovery is a process of evolution. We want to become the best person we can, doing work we feel is important, feeling loved and valued. There cannot be only one way to do that, because we are all different. We want to be given a road map to success, but few of us find that kind of specific direction gets us very far. We learn what is right for us through our own efforts.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 6: A Leap of Faith*** it also tells us: *“With a base of intimacy and safety in the fellowship, it can be easier to venture out into the world. Learning to live and serve by the traditions gives us particular skills that are very welcome outside the rooms. Willingness, honesty, belief in unity, and faith in the process make us valuable wherever we choose to serve. We know how to make ourselves useful, how to be teachable, and how to show respect and allow others to speak. Being able to focus on a primary purpose and work creatively toward it is so much a part of our way of life that we may not realize how highly valued that is in the world at large. Learning to serve gives us skills to lead. But it’s in our relationships inside NA that a particular kind of work happens, and that’s one of the reasons that it is so important for us to “plug in” to the fellowship.”*

*(Awakenings and Miracles, Faith, Fellowship, Honesty, God of my understanding, Honesty, Learning to Serve, Plug In, Prayer and Meditation, Relationships, Service, Skills to Lead, Spirituality, Teachable, Unity, Value Myself, Willingness)*