---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Jan 29
title: "Being a Friend "
---
I would need to strive to be helpful to those who were near me. I needed to search for something in every person I met that I could like. I had to stop looking at how others were different than I was and start looking for similarities. I had to stop making judgments about others. I needed to work on accepting them for who they were. I found that when I started to treat others with respect, I began to respect myself more. I found that when I cared enough to be honest with others, I could be more honest with myself.

 Those that judge don't matter. Those that matter don't judge.

In our ***Basic Text, Chapter Two, What Is the Narcotics Anonymous Program?*** it tells us: *“We feel totally free to express ourselves within the Fellowship, because law enforcement agencies are not involved. Our meetings have an atmosphere of empathy. In accordance with the principles of recovery, we try not to judge, stereotype or moralize with each other. We are not recruited and membership does not cost anything. NA does not provide counseling or social services.*

*Our meetings are a process of identification, hope and sharing. The heart of NA beats when two addicts share their recovery. What we do becomes real for us when we share it. This happens on a larger scale in our regular meetings. A meeting happens when two or more addicts gather to help each other stay clean.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 3: A Spiritual Path, A Spiritual Journey*** it also tells us: *“When we get tangled up in our differences and reservations, it’s easy to forget why we bother with spirituality in NA. The Basic Text reminds us simply, that “We ease the pain of living through spiritual principles.” Addicts feel life so acutely, and it’s often this pain that drives us to use even when we know it won’t actually make it better. We have been willing to trade even a moment’s relief for a lifetime of hardship. Surviving our own lives seems impossible when we get here, but we learn, gradually, to face reality and make friends with the truth. The spiritual principles we practice help to take the edge off that pain, and the more we practice, the more we find that those principles are the keys to freedom. Our lives get easier as we “get clean” in all our affairs. As we practice honesty, integrity, and fidelity, we no longer have to keep track of our stories or cover our tracks. We may be surprised to find that it is actually easier to live this way. We can love our lives, find joy in being alive, and face the world with genuine excitement.”*

*(Acceptance, Atmosphere of Empathy, Fidelity, Free, Helpful, Honesty, Hope and Sharing, Identification, Integrity, Principles, Respect, Spirituality, Truth)*