---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Jan 30
title: Being Honest
---
Early in my recovery process I was frequently tempted to put myself in high-risk situations. I wanted to see old friends. I was lonely. I wanted to have a good time. I was bored. I would get angry. I would relapse back into old behaviors. It did not take long for me to figure out that just because I stopped using did not mean I was cured.

In times like this I needed others that I could trust to help me. I found this help at meetings. I had to learn to genuinely care for myself. Being honest and talking about what was really going on in my life at meetings did help me to learn the things that did not come naturally to me.

Am I willing to be honest and ask for help when I need it?

In our ***Basic Text, Our Members Share, Regardless of ..., A Textbook Case*** it tells us: *“What a caring and wonderful family. We love, respect, support, and protect one another. Together, we reach out to newcomers. We sponsor our individual and collective spiritual growth. We carry the NA message of hope and freedom to suffering addicts. And we love and care for one another until we learn to love and care for ourselves.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 3: A Spiritual Path, Creative Action of the Spirit,*** it also tells us: *“We can do so much in our world. Once we find recovery, our addiction no longer limits us. We are of value in and out of the fellowship. “Today I understand I am an instrument of my Higher Power’s will. I have a choice whether I will play in tune, create a new song, or just make noise for its own sake.” By adhering to spiritual principles we are able to live, work, and accept situations in the real world, inside and outside NA. When we work the steps in order, we learn to apply them to our daily affairs. If we practice these principles, we never have to use again, and we can continually improve our ability to serve and to cope with what life brings. We admit our powerlessness, ask for help, admit our errors, work on our defects, make amends, and ask for continued guidance. As we apply these principles to our daily thoughts and actions, we enhance the quality of our lives.”*

*(Ask For Help, Care, Cope With What Life Brings, Freedom, Fellowship, Honesty, I Am An Instrument, Life, Love, Protect, Respect, Sharing, Spiritual Growth, Guidance, Message of Hope, Quality, Spiritual Principles, Support, Trust, Value, What Was Really Going On)*