---
layout: ../../../layouts/BasePost.astro
date: Jan 31
title: Being of Service
---
There is gladness in your heart when you are in service. As addicts, none of us can consider any job beneath us. Every day we interact with other people. It is important for us to see all people as an opportunity for service.

I never really know whom the God of my understanding may bring into my life. He may bring them into my life so that I can be of service to them. Who am I to turn down this opportunity? He may bring these people into my life to teach me more about life or more about recovery. I should be open to learning from each of these experiences. I do not know what the plan for me may be.

In our ***Basic Text, Our Members Share, Regardless of ..., Growing Up in NA,*** it tells us: *“What have I learned after spending more than half my life in NA? Simply that the fundamentals are just that, fundamental. There is no substitute for being of service, having a good sponsor, working the steps, and going to meetings. I was fortunate in that I got clean so young that I have literally grown up with twelve incredible tools for living—the steps. I have had to confront many difficulties during my recovery. But with the tools of recovery I’ve been able to overcome and, even more importantly, learn from and grow through all of it.”*

In our ***Living Clean: The Journey Continues, Chapter 7: The Journey Continues, Being of Service*** it also tells us: *“Whether we give back best in structured service, one-on-one, or somewhere in between, being of service is a matter of principle for us. Practicing and teaching principle-based service is both a way we carry the message and a way we receive the gifts that recovery has to offer us. Service connects us to the fellowship and helps keep us connected and involved even when we’re not at the top of our game. Having a commitment to open the door at a meeting once a week can be the difference between staying involved and slipping away. Early on, service is a way we start to feel useful and wanted. Later on, being of service gives us a reason to keep coming back even when we don’t feel like it.”*

*(Commitment, Connected and Involved, Experience, Fundamentals, Gifts, Gladness in Your Heart, Learn From and Grow, One-On-One, Opportunity For Service, Principles-Based, Simplicity, Sponsorship, Steps, Structured Service, Teachable, Twelve Incredible Tools For Living, Useful and Wanted)*